 Name: Babe

Position: Top / Mid

Role: Fighter

Mastery choices:
Free-For-All costs 2 less / Free-For-All increases its duration by 1 round

Gift Bundle has no maximum for tokens / Gift Bundle provides an additional 2 AP and 13 health per token

Itemisation: Fighter / ADC / Mage (hybrid)

Synergies: Big Foot (Rapid Cooling)

Counters: None

Countered by: None

Summary: Stat-stick Fighter with no real strengths or weaknesses.

Analysis: Babe is a Fighter who exists exclusively to be a stat stick; he has no real unique qualities other than getting a lot of stats. His passive similarly provides stats - he gets his first item for 20% of the usual price. This allows him to get a chunky power boost early on in the game, though it does of course become entirely irrelevant in the late game when everyone is sitting on full builds.

Besides his cheap first item, Babe's main distinguishing feature is Gift Bundle, which stacks up Happy Happy stacks (giving stats) while it sits in hand. Notably this provides armour as well as AP and health, giving Babe a lot more staying power than you'd expect from a Fighter. Since you're getting plenty of survivability from your Happy Happy stacks you can generally itemise Babe with whatever items will give him the most damage - an approach which his Hybrid damage type assists with. You can also turn him into a fairly effective damage sponge, but with no innate effects or additional Presence he won't perform particularly well in this role.

Babe's lack of unique effects leaves him a fairly reliable, if uninspired, pick. He'll rarely excel, but he also won't get demolished - a safe blind pick, but not a power pick. You'll usually want to put him in top lane - he has enough stats to survive being isolated, and his effects are global so he can work from anywhere. The only reason to run him in mid is if you're in a meta with early objective fights where mid lane is involved, in which case you can use his early item completion to try to leverage a free objective.

Cards:
Target a hero; move to that hero's hex and give them the Invitation effect, which causes them to be picked as a Free-For-All target next time it's drawn. Then dispel debuffs from all allies within 1 hex and give them a shield equal to 10 x Happy Happy stacks. Babe returns to his original hex at the end of the round.

Quite expensive for what amounts to a fairly small shield; you'll mostly want to use this to designate a target for Free-For-All if you're looking to force them out of lane or pick up a bounty. Avoid playing this card unless you have a specific plan in mind, and note that in a pinch it can be used as a temporary movement card to join someone else's initiation.

While this card is in hand, Babe gains a stack of Happy Happy at the end of each round. If played, Babe gains 5 stacks of Happy Happy and this card moves to the far left of the hand.

Really quite expensive to play - it amounts to 4 SP for 20 AP, 125 health and 2.5 armour - but still worth it to keep it in hand. Otherwise just leave this to sit in your hand and accrue stacks. Note that the only reason to take the mastery for extra stats from Happy Happy is if you're entirely focussed on the early game - it amounts to 50 AP and 325 health at full stacks, meaning the unrestricted stack mastery will surpass it after 38 stacks for AP and health (and immediately at 25 stacks for armour since the bonus mastery doesn't give armour).

When this card enters your hand it randomly selects 2 allies and 3 enemies from those that are currently alive (a target with Invitation from Home Delivery will always be chosen). When played, start a fight with Babe and the selected heroes, lasting 4 rounds (or 5 if this is your first card to be played this Deployment Phase).

Unreliable, but thanks to masteries, a cheap and fairly long duration initiation. Due to Babe's early item gain and stat boosts you'll want to play this frequently early on, then become more discriminating as the game wears on to only take favourable fights. Note that if you kill one of the chosen heroes after this card has entered the hand it will give you a favourable numbers advantage.

Interactions:
Big Foot - Being entirely generic, Babe has no real interactions with anyone; Big Foot is however somewhat notable as his Rapid Cooling card can allow you to keep Gift Bundle in hand without paying the exorbitant 4 SP price.
v2.1 | Babe
No huge shift from the updates; some small buffs from solid equipment being added, but otherwise remains as above.

Variant 1

Removed - Search Gift Bundle when participating in a kill, moving it to the far left if already in hand.

Gained - Each time Babe buys an equipment, Free-for-all's cost reduces by 3 until played.

This variant generally winds up being a small nerf - Babe's power lies in simply out-statting opponents, which is harder to do without Gift Bundle being searched into hand for free. With good luck on your hero selections this can allow Babe to set up very cheap fight kills, but unless you're building a comp around lots of skirmishing it's hard to really make this reliable (and if you are, only getting the discount three times per game is awkward). Does allow for Babe to snowball quickly, though, since picking up kills will get him to his next equipment, and in turn discount, faster.
v3.1 | Babe
v3.1 Updates: No changes to Babe, he's still the same big ol' statstick he always has been.

Item build:
Ultimate Iron Fist, Gravity Converter, Dragon Slayer
Farming Bell, Gravity Converter, Self-Increasing Dumbbell
Archmage Hat, Blue Monolith, Jar of Doom

Reserve Tactics: Find Another Chance to retain Gift Bundle for 10 rounds - debatable as you could just pay the 2 SP extra to get 5 stacks, but this fits into your turn better and overlaps into a second Deployment Phase.

Funnelling: Keep Gift Bundle in hand without playing it by spamming Free-For-All every DP; amplify any buffs granted to Babe via expensive but accessible equipment. Not entirely recommended, but you could do worse.

Rejected gags: None. The character design is too ridiculous to easily ridicule.

Wait. Wait a second. "Home Delivery"... is this an alternate design for... her[questionablecontent.fandom.com]?!
Bart
After achieving major success at such a young age, Bart's teenage years were troubled by wild parties and substance abuse. His appearance in this game is several years following his successful stint in rehab; however, he insists on donating his salary to charity, instead continuing to live off the royalties from 'The Simpsons'.

Name: Bart

Position: Top

Role: Tank

Mastery choices: Increase Presence by 1 and reflect an additional 5% AP physical damage / Shield Wall shielding increased by 10% of Bart's health

Gain 1 armour per level / Gain 2 Presence and 200 health

Reflect an additional 7.5% AP physical damage / Gain 2 Presence and 35 health per level


Itemisation: Full tank, prioritising Presence and Armour.

Synergies: None

Counters: Low health/high AP physical attackers

Countered by: Magic damage, Manta

Summary: Brick wall tank with some reflected damage.

Analysis: Bart is a pretty straightforward hero really - he stands at the front and soaks damage, and if it's physical, he hits his attacker back. That's about it; his AP is very low so he doesn't really do much damage worth talking about with his attacks. His cards are effective at facilitating a tower-push strategy, but they're also incredibly expensive so if that's your goal you're going all-in.

There really isn't any finesse or intricacy you can pull off with him - you draft him if you want a big meaty tank. That's that. Notably he doesn't reflect damage when struck with magic damage, and given that the reflection is essentially all of his damage contribution, you only really want to take him if the enemy don't have much in the way of magic damage.

If you want him to survive, or even win, skirmishes you should prioritise armour over other stats - the damage reflection is based on the attacker's AP, not the damage taken, so mitigation matters. At the end of the day, though, he's useless without Presence since he contributes sod all if not being hit.

Unfortunately, while he's a decent enough tank in a fight, his cards are pretty lacklustre. Bart winds up being just a bit meh, never really excelling, and while he can perform just fine, there's usually better heroes you can pick for the role. That said, the one niche he does perform very well is acting as a wall against certain crit-centric heroes like BaJie and Lan due to his immunity to crits.

Cards:
Pick a tower; it takes double damage for the rest of the game.

Very expensive for what it does. It's not that the effect is bad, but it really doesn't do anything to actually help you win lanes - just makes it happen faster once you are. For four SP that's really not good enough.






Give a teammate a shield equal to 20% of Bart's max health.

Not a bad card in general, but that's about it. Decent chunk of a shield, indefinite duration.







Pick a lane and push it three times.

Much like with Metal Fatigue, doesn't really do anything to win the lane, just wins it harder once you already are. The combination of the two can push down a lane quickly, but you'll only really want to play them both immediately after an objective fight which you won convincingly or if that's your main game plan.




Interactions:

Immunity to crits protects against crit-oriented heroes, and an on-demand shield can provide assistance to the heroes that like that kind of thing. You can also combine Metal Fatigue with direct tower damage, but usually the SP cost of doing so is prohibitively high.

Manta - While Bart is immune to crits, Manta is immune to being immune to crits. This makes Manta one of the few heroes that can realistically gank top lane and expect to walk away with kill gold.
v2.1 | Bart
No inherent shift. That said, he's always going to be a counterpick tank, so arguably the Variants are never going to make any difference at all to your decision-making process.

Variant 1

Changed - When taking Physical damage, deals 30% 25% of the attacker's AP as damage to the attacker.

Gained - If the Physical damage taken is a critical hit, increase the damage dealt to the attacker by 50%.

Makes Bart a more potent counterpick into crit-reliant heroes like BaJie, at the expense of being worse into non-crit heroes. Mostly a buff when you're picking something that can reliably kill those crit-centric opponents after Bart chips them down, though it's still not going to kill them on its own.

Variant 2

Gained - When taking Magical damage, the attacker takes damage equal to Bart's Armour.

A straight up buff, but a small one. This does allow Bart to reflect damage in more circumstances (and has some synergy with some of the equipments which can stack armour to a nasty extent), but once again the damage isn't really enough to make a difference in most cases. Note, however, that this procs when taking magic damage, not when attacked by magic-using heroes - with a few good armour items you can get a lot of chip damage onto incidental damage-dealers like Peiniang Zhu and Crank.
v3.1 | Bart
v3.1 Updates: Changed my view on his second Mastery choice - while armour is definitely nice, Presence is harder to get easy access to and lets Bart do his job more effectively in the early game if the meta has early top-lane objective fights. Otherwise, a number of tweaks and additions here and there, particularly around variants and in recognising the efficacy of tower-push strategies.

Item build: Standard Pure Tank. Terror Anthology is an option since it works off Bart's damage reflection, though bear in mind it's only going to be applying to physical opponents.

Reserve Tactics: Aggressive Tower Push / Break-In - synergises nicely with strong pushing strategies if that's the approach you're taking. Break-In is lower risk since you don't need to take damage and they're removed when played, but will only let you hard push one lane rather than doing it all game.

Funnelling: Tutoring Bart's cards will be necessary if your strategy is to rail towers into oblivion. Bonus health from cards or gold will contribute towards making him an immovable object at the frontline, but make sure he's got the Presence to stop the enemy team just walking around him.

Rejected gags:
Stop hitting yourself. Stop hitting yourself. Stop hitting yourself.[media1.tenor.com]

Big Foot
Proven at long last to really exist; ironically his feet are pretty much reasonably proportioned.

Name: Big Foot

Position: Top

Role: Tank

Mastery choices:
Frostbite costs 1 more but applies two stacks of Frozen Stiff / Frostbite damage increases by 5%

Gain 35 max health per level and 1 Presence / Gain 200 max health and 2 Presence


Itemisation: Tank

Synergies: Stall-oriented comps and heroes, Babe (Rapid Cooling for Gift Bundle)

Counters: Multi-attacking tanks

Countered by: Wukong (debuff reflection)

Summary: Bulky tank that shreds the AP of the enemy team.

Analysis: Big Foot is a tank who, unfortunately, doesn't really feel like he does much. The hero is entirely reliant on his debuff, Frozen Stiff, which applies a stack to an enemy hero whenever they attack in a fight; each stack reduces AP by 6% (with masteries) to a maximum of -30% at 5 stacks. Once fully stacked, they then take 8% of their current health as damage with each action instead. [Changed with v3.1 - Frozen Stiff can no longer be improved by masteries and deals 6% current health at max stacks. Why they felt he needed nerfing I have absolutely no idea.]

The trouble is that this debuff isn't really enough to justify an entire hero slot, and all he brings otherwise is one good card and several bad ones. The %current health damage is laughably low, even when the target has multiple attack sources to make it trigger frequently, and while the AP shred is good it works like all similar effects in that it snapshots rather than being dynamic. This means that any effect which triggers after the debuff is applied will be unaffected - for instance, if Kid has five stacks and then a unit dies, Kid will gain the full amount of AP he normally would get rather than reducing the gain by 25%. Given the number of item-based effects which can raise AP, this leaves the Frozen Stiff debuff a lot weaker than it really should be.

That being said, if you're operating a strategy reliant on a heavy tank line, Big Foot operates fairly well. His debuff helps to improve survivability not just for himself, but for your other tanks as well, and he is quite impressively bulky himself. It's unfortunate that he's restricted to top lane - he would work a lot better as a defensively-oriented support. That said, he can function - just don't expect any miracles from him, and generally avoid picking unless you have a specific strategy in mind.

Cards:
Pick a card in hand. When it would go into the discard pile, instead put it on top of your deck.

Big Foot's one strong card, this lets you at the very least guarantee a card will be available to you two Deployment Phases in a row, and if you have at least one card draw in hand will let you double play. The power of the play depends entirely on the card being returned, of course, but effects such as Kid's Amnesty, Cubey's Accelerated Metabolism and Beverly's Renovation are all examples of very strong cards to repeat. It's important to bear in mind, however, that this isn't going to let you re-use a card which is removed when played (though it will return it to your draw pile if you let it discard unplayed).
N.B. This card is currently either bugged or misrepresented. The hero screen suggests that it's generated at levels 1/6/11/16, which is the same format used for heroes whose cards are removed when played. Rapid Cooling is in fact not removed when played, so one copy is generated at level 6 and then no further copies are generated.

Pick an enemy hero and apply the Frostbite effect, causing them to take additional damage equal to 10% of Big Foot's max health the next time they take damage.

Rather expensive for what it does, this card is mostly useful as a means of setting up for future fights. 10% of Big Foot's max health isn't a huge amount in the first place, and this is pre-mitigation damage, so the actual damage dealt will be lower still. Not a priority card to play, but one that can have some uses if you need to swing an upcoming fight you anticipate being closer than you'd like.

Choose an enemy hero. They, and all enemies within 1 hex, receive two stacks of Frozen Stiff which remain until the end of the next fight.

Absurdly over-costed, 4 SP for two stacks of Big Foot's passive is ridiculous. Yes, it applies the AP debuff on the field, lowering potential harass and attack card damage, but 4 SP for 12% AP reduction is never going to be worth it. The only time you'd ever want to play this card is if you're running a designated stall comp, and even then you'll be very likely to have better things to spend your SP on.


Interactions:
Stall comps - While Big Foot doesn't have much in the way of direct synergy, the combination of AP shred and big tank has value for team comps specifically designed to out-last. Heroes with inevitability or damage-over-time, such as Crank, Wolfgang, Peiniang Zhu etc. can get some value out of him.

Multi-attackers - A very soft counter, Frozen Stiff is applied whenever an enemy takes an action. This means that heroes which attack repeatedly will gain stacks quickly and start taking damage - Felyn, for instance, will immediately stack to full and take some chip damage right at the start of the fight. Frozen Stiff damage is too low for this to be a genuine counter, but it is worth noting if you're stuck for a pick.
v2.1 | Big Foot
Big Foot's Variants make some pretty huge changes to how he works. Variant 2 in particular makes him a much more appealing pick.

Variant 1

Changed - Frozen Stiff reduces AP by 5% 3% per stack.

Changed - At max stacks, Frozen Stiff deals 6% current maximum health as damage after each action.

Shifts power out of the AP debuff and into damage. In most circumstances this is a minor nerf to Big Foot - you're picking him to shred AP, after all, not deal damage. It can make him a pretty vicious counter to big tanks though, and improves his synergy with Crank by making the periodic damage more lethal.

Variant 2

Removed - Frozen Stiff reduces AP by 5% per stack; at max stacks, instead deals 6% current health as damage.

Added - Frozen Stiff reduces armour by 4 per stack, to a maximum of 32.

A major shift in Big Foot's pick priority; instead of being a defensive tank, he now becomes a vicious offensive tank. While the debuff takes a while to stack up, it will wind up being incredibly impactful as a fight wears on - 32 armour is most, if not all, of a squishy's defences. This also makes Big Foot a very potent counter to high action heroes, particularly when combined with Raven. Lastly, the higher stack count coupled with damage amplification makes Blizzard a slightly more attractive play (though still hideously, painfully overpriced).
v3.1 | Big Foot
v3.1 Updates: Updated the entry to reflect that masteries have changed slightly and the debuff weakened (I think this might've actually come in in v2.1, but Big Foot is useless enough that I didn't notice). One important change, however, is that with the ascent of Peiniang Zhu into the high priority supports, Big Foot becomes a strong niche pick thanks to his passive triggering Lightning Mark once fully stacked.

Item build:
Standard Pure Tank. Heart Mirror is a good item since the AP shred will lower attackers' damage, letting more of it be blocked. Terror Anthology could see some niche use, but won't actually proc until the attacker is fully stacked.

Reserve Tactics: Consider Focus to get rid of his garbage cards (on your support, the only role that can get it). Rapid Cooling can be used to keep cards like Forceful around for longer.

Funnelling: Definitely not. No good can come of this.

Rejected gags:
Big Foot looks so freakin' happy in his character portrait. I guess it's true what they say - cold hands, warm heart.
Cubey
Despite their similar names, there's no relation between Cubey and Qube. At least, so far as anyone knows. They do look kinda similar though...

Name: Cubey

Position: Top / Mid

Role: Fighter

Mastery choices: None

Itemisation: Fighter

Synergies: Search effects, max health buffs

Counters: None

Countered by: Mihawk (high health, high armour target), repeated ganks.

Summary: Greedy top-lane Fighter who underperforms if he's not prioritised and overperforms if he is.

Analysis: It's easy to write Cubey off. After all, it looks weird, and it doesn't really do a lot if you just pick it without a setup. Indeed, what commentary I've seen on Cubey all seems to think he sucks. However, what those people don't seem to have realised is that if you prioritise supporting it, Cubey can become one of the meanest Fighters around.

The key to Cubey's playstyle lies in its cards. Each time it plays one of its Differentiation cards, it gains a stack of Evolution. For each stack of Evolution, Cubey enters fights with a stack of Drain The Life, each stack of which gives 4% lifesteal and 8 armour. This in and of itself gives you a good reason to spam Cubey's cards - with a good number of stacks, Cubey will be virtually untouchable for the first few rounds of a fight. Additionally, once it gets to 6 Evolution stacks, all the effects of Differentiation are doubled (including the ones you already played) and it gains an additional card to help bolster played Differentiation cards.

On top of the Evolution stacks (which are, as noted, very strong), Cubey's Differentiation cards all function based on its health (or rather, the amount of health spent to play them). Since one of them boosts max health (and max health will naturally get higher over the course of the game via gold), each subsequent Differentiation card played will provide more stats. As such, you get out of Cubey what you put in - if you don't focus on playing its cards then of course you'll struggle to get enough stats built up to matter. If you build a team around it, on the other hand, you can stack up to some disgusting numbers:







One important note however - I don't know if it's actually intended to or not, but for some reason Cubey's Drain The Life buff can fall into the negatives. Cubey gains a stack when hitting and loses a stack when taking damage, but chances are over the course of a fight it will eat more hits than it dishes out - and it's entirely possible for this to drop below zero. There is no effect from negative lifesteal, fortunately, but it is possible to see your armour drop into the negatives as a result.

On the whole, therefore, Cubey can be reasonably compared to Frank. If just picked without thought, Cubey will just act like a much worse Frank; if given priority, however, it becomes Frank++, a Frank which has all the health but also far more AP, and keeping that AP even at high health. In other words, you wind up with a Cubey that does this:


Cards:
Doesn't start in the deck - spawns in the draw pile when Cubey reaches 6 stacks of Evolution. When played, heal Cubey to full health and then search a Differentiation card.

Once Cubey starts rolling, this card spawns and helps to keep things going. Given the fact that Cubey has to spend health to get stats from its cards, heals are extremely valuable to it; aside from any Emergency Recall cards you happen to have in your deck, this is the main way to heal your Cubey up so that its other cards have full effect. It also helpfully searches out a card for you to play to ensure that health isn't wasted.

Take 25% max health as damage; gain 1 max health for every 2 health lost. Gains a token each time it's played; at 5 tokens, this card is removed and a second copy of Differentiation-a is spawned in its place.

Effectively a 12.5% max health increase, rising to 25% when you hit 6 Evolution stacks. This is the priority to play - more max health means more AP from your other Differentiation. That said, since you can only play this five times, there is something to be said for delaying slightly - more max health from gold means more health from this card. It's a bit of a balancing act, but in my view it's more important to get this card played ASAP so you can get enough health stacked up to start being a menace.

Take 35% max health as damage. Gain 1 AP per 25 health lost, then attack all enemy heroes and towers within 1 hex.

This, on the other hand, is how Cubey takes over the game once its health is stacked up. For context, this equates to 14 AP per 1000 current health, doubled once you hit 6 Evolution stacks. This may not sound like a lot, but when you focus on buffing Cubey's health and healing it up, it can stack up very quickly. The attack built into this card is something you'll usually forget even exists - it's definitely not why you play the card - then you play two copies in the late game and your lane opponent explodes. Always funny.

Interactions:
Search effects - Cubey wants to play Cubey's cards. It's that simple. Any search effects you can give it will boost its effectiveness as the game goes on. As you might expect, Blocker (as the premier searcher in the game) is your best choice - particularly because Cubey only has cards it wants to play, so even Interference Field will probably help find one (as well as healing you up to boot). Reinhardt is also notable as while Supersonic is weaker than Signal Detection, late game it can move you into position to explode other lanes as well.

Health boosts - All of Cubey's stat-boosting cards operate based on Cubey's health. This means that max health boosts feed into the entire operation, bolstering its stats even more. Even in the absence of max health boosts, simple healing can help Cubey to stay at its max health so as to get the most value out of its cards. Finally, in the absence of either of these, note that the Differentiation cards are coded as damage rather than expenditure, so you can actually shield the damage taken while still getting all of the benefits.

Digo - Worth noting as probably the best bot lane pick in a Cubey team. The entire point of your pick/ban is to make Cubey an unkillable monstrosity - and if Cubey is unkillable, so is Digo. You'll be taking Blocker anyway, who can function okay in a 1v2 gank, and Digo doesn't have many cards so you'll have more chance of getting Cubey's. Of course, it's all much of a muchness when your Cubey has 3k+ AP, but optimisation matters I guess.
v2.1 | Cubey
Variants again make big changes to Cubey's efficacy. Its effective playstyle remains the same - stack stack stack - but with differing outcomes.

Variant 1

Gained - At the beginning of each round on the field, increase Cubey's max health by 3 x Evolution stacks

Removed - Gain Drain the Life stacks on entering a fight, granting 4% lifesteal and 8 armour per stack. Gain 1 stack when hitting and lose 1 stack when being hit.

Gained - Gain Active Body stacks on entering a fight, granting 10 armour per stack. Lose 1 stack when being hit.

Generally a substantial buff to Cubey's playstyle because it mitigates a major issue it has - you want to spam Differentiation-b early, but doing so has less impact on its max health than it does later into the game when its health pool is larger. Gaining max health continually over the course of the game softens the blow. Active Body is generally weaker than Drain the Life due to not being able to regain stacks, but honestly this is something of an afterthought - your goal is to make Cubey into a 3k+ AP monster, not to lifesteal-tank things.

Variant 2

Gained - Base armour is set to 0.

Gained - Each stack of Evolution also grants 6 armour. Once Evolution reaches 6 stacks, the armour gain is doubled (retroactively).

On paper this looks like a buff - once you hit 6 stacks you're looking at 72 armour, which is an increase over the normal base. In practice, however, it makes Cubey much more dependent on healing effects on the field - having no armour early results in it taking more damage, which in turn leaves it lower on health and therefore reduces the impact of the Differentiations. If you can align your healing properly, though, this is a big fat buff.
v3.1 | Cubey
v3.1 Updates: No huge changes. Updated position suggestion to reflect my new view that mid-lane Cubey is stronger - he's more vulnerable to the ganks that can shut him down (since dying makes him drop his cards from your hand), but much more likely to be able to explode his lane opponent (and to catch the jungler in the crossfire).

Item build: Cubey can build most things, honestly. What he really doesn't need is flat AP - believe me, he gets more than enough of that. Armour items can help to protect a midgame Cubey, early health items allow for better ramping, and he has a big enough health pool from stacking that he can happily take drawback items like Blue Monolith without the slightest concern. Mechanical Arm is notable due to giving him massive amounts of armour when stacked as well as a little Presence to waste some attacks.

Reserve Tactics: Quick Recall is a must to heal up for efficient Differentiation plays. Resource Sacrifice (on other athletes) can actually be worthwhile since Cubey will multiply incoming stats exponentially and is unlikely to die with them. Solo Show can also help to get him rolling quickly enough to impact the midgame.

Funnelling: Yes. Yes. A thousand times yes. Do not play Cubey unless you're funnelling him.

Rejected gags:
Turns out evolution was just leading us back to being big, amorphous blobs.

The smaller blobs aren't actually a part of Cubey. They're just there so he doesn't have to pay for a babysitter. Blobsitter. Whatever.
Frank
Lazy, uninspired[en.wikipedia.org] or stolen[leagueoflegends.fandom.com] character design? Don't be ridiculous!

Name: Frank

Position: Top / Mid

Role: Tank

Mastery choices:
Gain 35 health per level and 1 Presence / Gain an additional 5% of damage taken in the field as health

Gain an additional 3 health per 25 gold / Presence increases by 2 when above 50% health and reduces by 1 when below 50% health

Itemisation: Tank, particularly armour

Synergies: Gang, Kid

Counters: Lane bullies

Countered by: None

Summary: Health-stacking tank with some moderate damage output.

Analysis: Frank is a tank. Specifically, a tank who stacks up a lot of health thanks to his passive, which grants him 25% of any damage taken on the field as max health. While his cards help out by forcing enemies to attack him, he performs best when played into lane bullies like Felyn and Qube who can't really operate in any way but to attack him. He's also assisted in this approach by having naturally high health scaling per level, but zero base armour - which makes him squishier than his health total would suggest, but ensures he gets the maximum health gain from being hit on the field.

In fights he leverages his sizeable health pool to soak hits. Importantly, for every 15 health he's missing he gains 1 AP - meaning the tankier Frank is, the more damage he can potentially deal. Note that he doesn't get any bonus max health from taking hits in fights - he only gains it on the field.

As a tank with a good innate source of damage, Frank fits nicely into most team comps to add bulk to your frontline. It's important to realise, however, that Frank is not a damage-dealer; if you're picking him for his AP scaling, you're making a mistake. If you want a top laner who'll deal damage, either pick a fighter like Qube or a funnel like Cubey. You pick Frank if you need a tank first and foremost, with his additional damage being the cherry on top.

Cards:
Gain 4 SP, then all enemy heroes attack Frank (globally), always hitting. Spawns in your deck at level 6/11/16, removed when played.

An understandably restricted card, as it's incredibly potent - 4 free SP and a pile of max health for Frank. Very little needs be said about this card - it's great, play it when you have it.





All enemy heroes within 1 hex of Frank attack, and are attacked by, Frank twice. The enemy attacks always hit.

Slightly comical that you'd pay 3 SP for the privilege of being hit, but that's how Frank rolls. Although the price tag is high, you'll want to play this as often as possible to make sure Frank has plenty of health for teamfights; ideally, you'll time it for when the enemy jungler has wandered past to maximise the health gain.



Interactions:
Mihawk - Mihawk and Frank have a slightly odd relationship. On the one hand, Mihawk deals a huge amount of damage to Frank in teamfights due to his %current health true damage; on the other, Mihawk's true damage on the field can give Frank an extremely high health pool, making him much more resilient to other heroes' attacks.

Kid - A minor point, particularly because both heroes usually want to be played in top lane, but Kid's Amnesty becomes even better when played on Frank since the self-damage is a benefit rather than a hindrance. This is amplified further if you happen to have Niels on your team for Revelation.

Gang - Gang likes to throw damage around, and half the time it's aimed at his team. While it's not optimal for Gang's AP gain to throw bombs up to top lane, Frank is the one hero on your team you want to hit with stuff. Using Gang and Frank in this way mitigates some of Gang's risk, though also lowers Gang's reward somewhat since he's not hitting the maximum targets (by targeting bot lane).

Raven - Frank's base 0 armour pretty much ensures Raven is going to be railing him with big crits unless he picks up a good armour item. Doesn't really matter enough to be a counter, since you kinda want the assassin beating on your tank instead of anyone else, but does mean he'll go down a fair bit faster than you'd want him to.
v2.1 | Frank
Variant heavily changes Frank's draft priority, but otherwise no huge changes.

Variant 1

Removed - Frank gains an additional 50 max health per level.

Gained - When dealing damage to enemy heroes on the field, Frank gains 25% of the damage dealt as max health.

The effects of this Variant vary based on the amount of investment you put into Frank:

- If you're not investing in him at all and just playing his cards when they're strong, this is a substantial nerf

- If you're playing his cards every time you get them but not otherwise supporting him, this Variant is about the same as the base one

- If you're investing into Frank by giving him extra attacks on the Field (whether through hero cards like Paisai's Barbarian Runes or through Tactics cards like Poke) this winds up being a solid buff

The overall result means that Frank stops being a standard mid-priority tank pick and becomes a hero to base your comp around. Draft heroes like Paisai, Palulu or Blocker, run Tactics cards like Continuously Poke, and grab equipment to boost his armour. Note that this Variant of Frank plays nicely into athletes who run multiple attack Tactics to synergise with other lane picks that like to smack things (Qube, Cubey etc.). It also becomes much, MUCH better in mid.
v3.1 | Frank
v3.1 Updates: No particular changes to Frank, he exists as he always has. Nonetheless, he's moving up tier lists simply because he's a full tank who can do a tank's job while also doing bruiser-tier damage.

Item build: Pure tank, optionally with a single damage item IF there's a good one available (Gravity Converter, Self-Increasing Dumbbell, that kind of thing). Armour is a priority since he has zero base, which is good for his health boosts but terrible for teamfights.

Reserve Tactics: Reckless Assault gives you an additional bootleg Fisticuffs, though swapping it in means a lot of SP being potentially allocated to Frank. Failing that, any of the Poke-oriented cards can give you some heavy hits if he's low in lane. Overpower is of course the hardest-hitting of these (and will wreck squishies), but bear in mind it's removed when played.

Funnelling: Tutoring Frank's cards is great - they're all things you want to play a lot. Fisticuffs on cooldown may leave your top lane turret at risk, but will ensure Frank becomes the monster he already appears to be. Don't try to target him with bonus stats though - his health and AP both get massive increases from his passives so anything you give him would be a drop in the ocean.

Rejected gags:
Okay, I get that they put Frank together out of mechanical parts and, presumably, body parts... but why a peg leg? That just seems inefficient.
Hass
Despite being known for his Shadow Imitation, Hass isn't actually very good at impressions. It's just that nobody's been brave enough to tell him.

Name: Hass

Position: Top / Mid

Role: Fighter

Mastery choices:
Hunt in Shadow costs 2 less / Hass deals an additional 30% damage to his target during Hunt In Shadow

Itemisation: Fighter

Synergies: None

Counters: Heroes with shields or temporary buffs

Countered by: None

Summary: Solid stat-stick hero who directly counters a lot of supports

Analysis: Hass is a Fighter generally taken as a counterpick thanks to his unique effects. Whenever he strikes a target in a fight, he steals all of the shields and temporary buffs they have; to facilitate this, he always targets the enemy with the most buffs where applicable.

It's important to differentiate between temporary and permanent buffs however, which the game's tooltip doesn't. Hass doesn't steal permanent buffs - in other words, Hass won't steal effects such as Beverly's Renovation or Frank's max health gain. Aside from shields, he'll steal effects which either have a set round duration, expire after an attack, or which expire at the end of a fight; strong examples include Aurelio's Flame, Wolfgang's Absorb, Kid's Judgment and Tiger Boy's Double Trouble.

Incidentally, while Hass will target whoever has buffs, the same doesn't apply to shields unless they're the result of a card. That means Traveler's Blessing will result in targeting and stealing, but something like a Blocker shield or Runic Ward will come down to whether he decides to smack them (once all the buffs are gone).

While Hass' main value comes from his counterpick potential, he's still a pretty solid stat stick even with no buffs to steal. Thanks to Shadow Imitator he'll usually out-stat his opposite number, so if all else fails he can simply act as a hefty Fighter. Thanks to these bonus stats he's a surprisingly good general purpose pick as well as counterpick, and can be drafted early simply to restrict your opponent's options.

Cards:
Target an enemy hero within 1 hex; start a fight with a 2 hex participation range and 5 round duration. The fight ends early if a hero dies; during the fight Hass deals 50/80% bonus damage to the targeted hero.

An awkward initiation to use, both because of its high cost (which is fixed with masteries), short range, and wide participation range. This card is the main reason you'll want to run Hass in top lane rather than mid - it's a lot easier to find yourself in a position to isolate your target in top lane rather than mid, and while Hass deals bonus damage to his target, you don't have any other way of actually making him hit them.

Target an enemy hero to copy 20/35% of the target's AP, health and armour. If played again, the previous buff is replaced.

The reason Hass is a good pick even without countering anyone. Not only are you simply stealing 35% of a target's stats (leaving Hass in a position to simply have more stats than anyone on the other team), but you can specifically target enemies who receive bonuses - so you can help yourself to 35% of a Beverly's stat bonuses, for instance. Note that as with all similar effects, this card operates on a snapshot basis rather than being dynamic - you gain 35% of the stats they have when played, and these aren't updated based on subsequent changes. This means you'll want to periodically re-play this card simply to get the benefit of your target's gold, level and equipment scaling; it also means that if you time it right you can steal a chunk of temporary buffs such as Bunu Shan's Wrath or Crank's Spectral Weapon.

Target an enemy hero within 2 hexes; attack them. This attack always hits, deals 150% damage, and Hass gains gold equal to the damage dealt.

For obvious reasons, this card is primarily used to give Hass even more of a stat lead over the enemy team, simply generating bonus gold; however, it is phenomenally expensive even taking the gold generation into account. For that reason you should avoid playing it before you've managed to play Shadow Imitator (as the bonus AP helps to generate more gold). Note that as gold generated is based on damage dealt, targeting enemies with low armour (particularly Frank) will have the best results.

Interactions:
Shields/buffs - As noted throughout the entry above.
v2.1 | Hass
No changes here; can cripple Raven by stealing Abyss though.

Variant 1

Changed - Steals all one of the target's buffs when hitting.

Gained - Increases Hass' damage by 12% per buff.

A slightly awkward change; Hass' damage tends to increase with this Variant, but it makes his main selling point - utterly neutering buff heroes - much less reliable. Increases Hass' pick priority into heroes with repeatedly-applied buffs which aren't consumed (e.g. Aurelio), but it was already basically max anyway, so...

On the other hand, unless your opponent REALLY screws the pooch in the draft (which isn't common for the AI nowadays) you're probably not getting any more than one buff per attack anyway, so in most cases this is probably just a straight buff.
v3.1 | Hass
v3.1 Updates: No major changes, but added a paragraph to clarify interaction around shields and targeting. Hass has fallen a little in my estimation simply because there's so many top lane picks now, and so many of them can do silly things, that Hass falls behind unless he's specifically countering a particular buff.
Since I didn't specifically list them in the original entry, the following are heroes that Hass really ♥♥♥♥♥ over. To be clear, this is not an exhaustive list of buffs he can steal - it's just the heroes that Hass basically shuts down entirely.

Aurelio (Flame)
Kid (Verdict)
Deep Space (Full Firepower)
Gillis (Accumulation, IF she misses her attack)
Cubey (Drain the Life or variant thereof)
Dylan (Strengthening Potion)
Wolfgang (Absorb)
Nihil (Ghost Cloak)
Raven (Abyss)
Fernan (Reshape)

Item build: Generally you'll want to build Hass as a generic bruiser to leverage his absorbed stats. The main exception to this is when you've got him hard-countering one of the above heroes - in this case you can build in the expectation that you'll get that particular buff. For instance, if Hass is countering Fernan, you can build him with a much heavier damage focus since he'll be picking up free armour and lifesteal.

Reserve Tactics: Really nothing much.

Funnelling: Not worth it. Hass' cards are too expensive and niche to be worth repeatedly searching out, and his functionality comes from his innate effects. He's also going to have a stat advantage either way. Pick someone else.

Rejected gags:
Does Hass have a black beard because he's dying his beard, or does he dye his hair and moustache the same colour? Is he secretly a pirate?
Justice
You might think that Justice's name comes from her prediliction for punishing her enemies with giant swords, but in fact that's not the case. It's actually a nickname that dates back to her early school days when she made a mistake when self-serving a drink at a fast food restaurant and filled a cup with nothing but ice.

Name: Justice

Position: Top / Mid

Role: Fighter

Mastery choices:
Gain an additional 2.5 AP and 10 max health per level / Gain an additional 1.5 AP and 18 max health per level

Itemisation: Fighter

Synergies: Mihawk (%current health to get enemies low)

Counters: Frank (Execute when he's most dangerous)

Countered by: None

Summary: Lane bullying hybrid Fighter with an automatic execute.

Analysis: Justice is an aggressive laning Fighter whose signature ability is to execute enemy heroes below 25% health. To do this, she gains stacks of Sword of Justice whenever she hits an enemy hero with a card or an in-fight attack; these stacks don't do anything themselves (other than give 5 armour each at max mastery). Once Justice has 4 stacks, the next time an enemy hero drops below 25% health in a fight she'll expend all four stacks to instantly kill them.

While this is the most obvious part of Justice's kit, in fact you'll usually only see it happen a couple of times per game. The main thing that makes Justice a strong pick is being one of only four heroes in the game marked as Hybrid heroes - allowing her to choose both physical and magical items when choosing her item build. This lets her create an optimal Fighter build which, coupled with her cheap offensive cards, usually means she'll win lane fairly convincingly. Unlike similar bullies like Qube she's unlikely to pick up solo kills, but will instead just push her opponent out of lane and accrue a gold advantage for teamfighting.

Given these factors, it's advisable to pick Justice when you need a strong, general-purpose Fighter to hold down a lane; she can then join later game teamfights and supply an execute (which realistically will usually boil down to a single attack's worth of damage, but still). She has no real counters, and so is a safe blind pick who'll perform well in pretty much any comp.

Cards:
Attack a hero or tower within 1 hex. Deals 2 damage to towers, or draws 1 card if it hits a hero. Also generates a second stack of Sword of Justice if it hits.

A useful poke tool, as it's cheap and self-cycles; particularly good if you have a hand discount card available of course. Its ability to target towers instead, if you so choose, gives it some versatility which is valuable for Justice as a tower-pushing lane bully.



Gain a 20/30% max health shield and the I Am Justice buff, which increases AP by 30/35% until the end of the next fight. Also grants 2 stacks of Sword of Justice.

Very cheap for the power of the effect, you should try to get this up ASAP after each fight; the shield will keep Justice in lane by absorbing harass, while the increased AP will help her to slap her opponent around. At the very least you should ensure the effect is in place prior to objective fights Justice will be involved in.


Kill an enemy hero or turret with less than 25% max health. Costs 4 stacks of Sword of Justice.

For some reason only spawned in your deck once Justice has hit level 6, despite her being able to execute enemies in fights from level 1. The vast majority of the time your only target for this card will be turrets, as enemies tend to recall when they drop below ~40% health; it is possible to use this as a follow-up after throwing some damage cards around, of course, but it's very expensive to fit into a combo like that. Generally you shouldn't bother with this card as its price is prohibitive, but occasionally you'll find a use for it.

Interactions:
Mihawk - Justice has no particular interactions with any heroes, but it's worth highlighting her partnership with Mihawk in teamfights. Mihawk's main strength is dealing damage to high %health targets; the lower their health gets, the less damage he deals. Justice being able to clean up after him allows both to function efficiently, and while this partnership isn't incredible, it's still worth noting as a decent synergistic set of picks.
v2.1 | Justice
Minor changes.

Variant 1

Changed - Sword of Justice execute triggers when an enemy unit drops below 25% 18% health. The execute kills that unit all enemy units below 25% health.

In almost all circumstances this is a nerf. In theory it can allow Justice to instakill two or more targets; in practice this requires enemies to fall into a very narrow band of health between 18% and 25% without slipping any lower. This simply isn't reliable, and so in practical terms usually means you're just working with a lower execute threshold. You can try to play for it by drafting AoE (Foso, Niels, Enidi), but you'll still rarely see a multi-execute.
v3.1 | Justice
v3.1 Updates: No changes, she's still exactly the same and my analysis stands.

Item build: Generally Bruiser, but since she's hybrid you can flex in any other items she might want. Most of the Magical items are a bit too glass cannon for her, but a few like Golden Ticket or Height Detector can be worth a look.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing special. Might see some use out of the tower-push cards, but honestly not enough to justify spending a reserve slot on.

Funnelling: Can be worth tutoring for the sake of picking up a lot of anti-tower cards if she's pushed up. Don't funnel bonus stats onto her though - not that she can't use them (as well as any other bruiser at least), but Justice usually wants to sit in a more aggressive pushing comp which closes the game out quickly, while stat-buffers usually want the game to run late. If you do wind up drafting her as a safe blind pick to start off a buff comp, you'll have a better target in mind.

Rejected gags:
Most of the heroes move around on their Archive screen, but not Justice. I'm pretty sure it's because her sword is stuck in the ground and she's too embarassed to admit it.
Kid
A sad indictment of the criminal justice system, as criminal convictions show a disproportionate prejudice towards melee individuals.

Name: Kid

Position: Top / Mid

Role: Fighter

Mastery choices:
When a unit dies in a fight, restore an additional 5% of its max health / When a unit dies in a fight, gain an additional 7% of its AP

Gain 1 additional armour per level / When a target affected by Eye of Judgment dies, gain 4 armour

Gain 1 Presence and an additional 35 max health per level / Gain 2.25 AP and 30 max health per level

Itemisation: Fighter, possibly with a little tank

Synergies: Assassins (fast target elimination), Gillis (Charm gold duplication), Mo (bounty generation)

Counters: Attrition-based comps

Countered by: Hass (steals Kid's stacks). High incoming damage, very high durability tanks

Summary: Vulture Fighter who heals and gains AP on deaths to take over late stages of fights.

Analysis: Kid is a Fighter whose role is to act as an insurance policy for long fights, giving you a major edge in fights that go the distance. He has two effects, the first of which is to apply Eye of Judgment to an enemy hero (prioritising melees but otherwise random). This has the dual effect of making Kid focus his attacks solely on them, and also causing Kid to attack them whenever they attack another hero. Secondly, whenever a hero dies (friend or foe) in a fight, he heals for a proportion of their max health and gains some of their AP for the rest of the fight.

The overall effect of these two abilities is to make Kid a fairly unimpressive Fighter at the start of the fight, throwing around low damage attacks at relatively tanky frontline targets and not accomplishing much. As a few heroes die, however, you suddenly find Kid is full health despite soaking substantial damage, and is putting out some substantial hits. Your goal with itemising Kid, therefore, is to a) keep him alive long enough for other heroes to die and start him snowballing, and b) to give him enough damage to be a credible chip damage threat even before that. Ideally you'll pick up some crit at the same time, to multiply out the bonus AP he gets during fights. This is also why you take the armour per level mastery - when the Eye of Judgment targets start dying, he's already ascendant and the fight probably going in your favour, so it's more important to focus on getting him there.

Kid has some pretty impressive innate tankiness, and between that and his solid gold-generating cards, can generally be relied upon to function as a solid frontline in teamfights. Thanks to that, his lack of counters and strong mid-fight snowball potential, he's a very strong pick in top lane and can safely be blind picked. He doesn't really need any particular comp to work well, and even if you don't need him as a Fighter can function fairly well as a pure tank. His only real weakness is being burst down before other heroes start dying, but that isn't easy to do (and usually means the enemy team is full of squishies which are easy to kill to get things rolling anyway).

Finally, it's worth noting that Kid has a relatively small set of cards - just two cards with one copy each - which helps to keep your deck consistent. They're also pretty good cards, for what that's worth.

As an aside, Kid has some of the weirdest character design, even in a game with heroes like Tiger Boy in it. The names of his passive and his cards suggest a 'judge' theme, and the hair style could feasibly be a nod to that as well - but then, why the bizarre frock coat and ruff? The addition of the six legs, meanwhile, just looks like lazy design stealing[leagueoflegends.fandom.com], since they have no real reason to be there otherwise.

Cards:
Choose an allied hero and hit them with a double damage, always-hitting attack. Both heroes then gain gold equal to Kid's AP.

A very solid, if expensive, card. This is another good reason to build Kid as a Fighter rather than a tank - more AP means more gold, both to him and his ally. As the game goes later, this can wind up generating 500+ gold for each of them, giving a solid gold lead. Best usage is to hit tab to check which of your team is closest to hitting an item, since getting additional items can be a major power spike.


Choose an enemy and give them additional bounty equal to Kid's level x 30. That target then receives a debuff causing them to take their bounty as additional damage the next time they're damaged.

Less potent as a gold generator than Amnesty, but still pretty solid; this also doubles as a setup card, letting you get some nice spike damage at the start of an upcoming fight without letting your opponent heal it away. It's important to note, however, that you need to kill the target at some point to get the gold from this card - try to avoid throwing it at pure tanks that you're unlikely to be able to pick off. Note that the damage debuff seems to be capped at 1000.

Interactions:
Gillis - While a very expensive combo, Charm can combine nicely with Amnesty for a major spike in gold. Also works nicely combined with the below.

Mo - Mo lives and breathes off claiming bounties, which of course is hard to do unless you're losing (at least in one lane). Conviction can add a pretty sizeable bounty to targets that Mo can then claim - and coupled with Gillis' Charm above, even more gold can be generated. Cha-ching!
v2.1 | Kid
Generally Kid's Variants work out to be a nerf in practice because they don't really play into the role you draft him for. He also loses out a bit on the new itemisation, none of which is really all that good for him.

Variant 1

Changed - When a unit dies, Kid heals for 15% of that unit's max health 500 health.

Changed - When a unit dies, Kid gains 15% of that unit's AP 2 x battle round AP.

A major nerf, these changes are only positive in the very early game when health and AP numbers are very low. You're not drafting Kid for an early game comp either way - he exists to take over the late game - so avoid drafting him when this Variant is up.

Variant 2

Changed - When a unit dies, Kid gains 15% of that unit's AP 15% increased AP.

A minor nerf in practice. This change causes you to need to prioritise decent AP equipment on Kid to let him take over like he's supposed to - but doing so renders him less likely to survive to the later stages of a fight where he's most valuable. The one bright spot is that this does snapshot his AP when proccing, so ways of increasing AP over the duration of a fight (e.g. Paisai) get multiplied (i.e. 15% on the first proc, 15% plus 15% of that on the second, etc.) but that doesn't really make up for what you're losing. Not really a dealbreaker though.
v3.1 | Kid
v3.1 Updates: Again no major changes aside from highlighting the Hass counter that I didn't make clear last time. Kid's still doing his Kid thing.

Item build: Pretty much just straight bruiser. If you're up against a full squishy team you can maybe swap in a tank item, or even two, to make sure he lives long enough to become threatening himself. Avoid Presence, though, he's not the guy you want eating hits.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing, really. There are some weird things you can do with Resource Sacrifice to really funnel gold onto a particular target (then recoup your losses with Amnesty) but really not worthwhile. Especially since Bruiser builds tend to run to the expensive.

Funnelling: Not really worth it. His cards are few and expensive, and the only bonus stats he cares about are the ones he generates himself.

Rejected gags:
If you're wondering about Kid's eye, he damaged it playing sports and had to get a cornea transplant from Monokuma[danganronpa.fandom.com]. And with that, I finally got a Danganronpa reference into the guide.
Miki
A man riding a giant chicken? Using it as a battle mount? How utterly absurd[finalfantasy.fandom.com].

Name: Miki

Position: Top / Mid

Role: Tank / Fighter

Mastery choices:
Seize the Initiative grants 1 additional SP / Seize the Initiative draws 2 additional cards

Itemisation: Tank

Synergies: Everything that likes shields (notably Niels)

Counters: None

Countered by: Hass (shield stealing)

Summary: Fairly vanilla tank with a focus on objectives.

Analysis: Miki is a Tank (badged by the game as a Fighter) whose main distinguishing feature is that he always shows up for objective fights no matter where he is on the map (unless dead, of course). Furthermore, when showing up for an objective fight he gives his team a shield equal to 10/17.5% of his max health, and generates a powerful card afterwards if he wins.

All of this means, quite obviously, that Miki is best picked if you want to focus on winning objective fights. Having said that, pay attention to your current ruleset - there's not much point in picking Miki in mid, for instance, if all your objective fights would involve mid either way. Miki himself really doesn't bring a whole lot to the table besides a small shield; his value lies in being able to make objective fights lopsided.

Since he has no other effects than a shield (based on his own max health), Miki is best built as a tank to soak damage for other more damage-capable heroes. To that end, you need to be careful with your draft - if you wind up with too little damage it often doesn't matter whether a fight is lopsided.

All of which results in Miki being a fairly low priority hero. He can provide some benefits in objective fights (and has a fairly nice initiation), but he doesn't bring all that much in himself compared to a lot of other heroes. That said, he can be a perfectly serviceable tank with a few nice upsides if you do manage to win fights, so he's okay as a fall-back pick if your priority picks aren't available.

Cards:
Gain 2/3 SP and draw 3/5 cards. Spawned into hand in your Deployment Phase after winning an objective fight; removed when played.

Your reward for running Miki and succeeding at doing what Miki wants you to do. This card allows Miki to act as a kind of pseudo-support - help your team to win objective fights, and then let them play more cards to snowball their advantage. Probably for the best, since Miki doesn't really have any tools to snowball with himself.



Target an enemy hero within 3 hexes. Initiate a fight with a 1 hex participation range and 4 round duration.

A pretty solid initiation card thanks to its good range and increased duration over the vanilla. That said, Miki often struggles to use the range because (due to not really doing much in fights besides soaking) the best way to have him actually contribute is through the use of Chick Running below. The 3-tile range on this is the only reason you'll want to run Miki in mid - if your bot lane (or top I guess) can easily win fights, Miki can start them for you.


Miki moves up to 2 hexes, then gives a shield of 10% of his max health to all allies within 1 hex (including himself).

Relatively cheap for a movement card, but just as low impact as movement cards usually are. Your best use for this is to throw shields around to assist the other lanes, particularly if you can sync up recalls with bot lane.





Interactions:
Buffs - Although lacking in carry potential, if you don't have a clear funnel target Miki can be a decent choice simply because of his omnipresence. Between his passive and his long distance engages, Miki will be a part of the vast majority of fights; you can therefore argue that you'll get the most efficiency out of throwing buffs to him rather than other heroes. Having said that, your best option is still usually a carry.

Niels - A notable minor synergy, Niels is probably the hero who appreciates shields more than anyone else in the game. Miki having an extremely cheap shield in Chick Running, as well as applying them automatically to the entire team in objective fights, can help to ensure Niels has a shield in most engagements without having to spend too much SP.
v2.1 | Miki
Barely changes at all. No real itemisation shifts, and the Variant is low impact.

Variant 1

Changed - At the start of objective fights and the Final Fight, Miki grants a shield equal to 10% of his max health AP equal to his level x 7 to all allies.

Changes one low impact effect to another. In most practical terms this is a buff - 7 x level AP is often quite substantial, especially for tanks - but really you're not going to notice either of them.
v3.1 | Miki
v3.1 Updates: Fixed role designations (I had him down as a jungler - not sure if he was ever a jungler or if that changed). Aside from that, nothing changes aside from a note on his engagement range.

Item build: Pure tank. Again, the game badges him as a Fighter and I have no idea why - he has absolutely no way of using bonus AP and the few buffs he provides are either stat-agnostic or determined by his health. Make him a beefy boi and let him soak for the people who can actually deal damage.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing. Maybe an extra Quick Recall if you want to get fancy, since if you're drafting Miki you're going hard on objective fights.

Funnelling: As a last resort, sure. He has both automatic entitlement to objective fights and a very long range initiation, so he can make the bonus stats matter a lot sooner than most. He doesn't really do much with them, though, so you'll only really target him if you pick an early buffer and then the pick/ban shifts to make your original strategy unfeasible.

Rejected gags:
Despite riding a giant chicken for some reason, the most perplexing part of MIki's design to me is that he uses a bident for some reason. Who uses a bident? Who even knows what one is aside from me?
Qube
Well of course I only shoot guilty people. I only shoot people who I've hit with my bat, don't I? And I wouldn't hit someone with my bat if they weren't guilty. So they must be guilty! BLAM! - Qube

Name: Qube

Position: Top / Mid

Role: Fighter

Mastery choices:
Swift Negotiation will search Climax even if the attack misses / Key Clues will search Interrogation/Swift Negotiation even if the attack misses

Add a copy of Interrogation to your deck / Swift Negotiation spawns a copy of Interrogation in your draw pile rather than your discard

Itemisation: Fighter

Synergies: Multi-attacker synergies

Counters: Solo lane squishies

Countered by: Solo lane tanks, Felicity

Summary: Strong teamfighting lane bully Fighter.

Analysis: Qube is a Fighter with high damage output in teamfights and a penchant for bullying lanes. Her central mechanic is Suspect - whenever she hits an enemy hero with an attack on the field they gain a stack of Suspect (max 5). In fights she takes two actions per round; the first is a swing from her nailbat, dealing 70% of her AP as damage and applying a stack of Suspect, while the second fires her revolver at all enemies with Suspect stacks to deal (30% x stacks) AP damage. Note that Suspect is NOT a debuff despite seeming like one, so it can't be reflected by Wukong or cleansed by the various debuff-removal heroes (as funny as it would be to see Qube shoot her entire team).

Qube's theoretical damage output is astronomical (if she were somehow able to apply 5 stacks to every enemy hero prior to a fight); actually reaching this maximum is functionally impossible. Nonetheless, she'll still do pretty obscene damage - so long as you're diligent about applying stacks, just going into a fight with 5 stacks of Suspect on her lane opponent will leave her doing 220% AP damage per round minimum (for context, an Awakened Bunu Shan does 240%). This leaves Qube doing comparable damage to heroes like Kamaitachi across the course of a large teamfight; her damage will naturally fall off towards the later stages of a fight as her 5-stack targets die, but by that point (hopefully) you're already winning the fight.

Besides being a high damage Fighter in teamfights, Qube is mainly picked for her lane bully status. She packs multiple attack cards used both to chip her opponent down and to build up Suspect stacks; unlike other lane bully heroes, however, she doesn't seek to force her opponent out of lane with her damage. Instead she uses her own initiation card to start heavily advantaged fights and pick up solo kills, similar to Wolfgang (albeit less reliably).

Qube is a strong pick into most team comps thanks to packing a lot of damage into a fairly high durability Fighter shell. More important than her own team comp is the opposing comp; while she can just sit in lane against a tank and farm, this isn't really using her to her strengths. She's best picked into a squishy laner who she can bully and solo kill repeatedly - she is, for instance, the best answer you can get to a top lane Felyn (or was, until Felicity arrived). Having said that, she's still perfectly solid as a low maintenance teamfight Fighter, hence her high tier status.

Cards:
Attack all enemy heroes in the same hex as Qube. If there aren't any, Qube instead pushes once. Spawn a Swift Negotiation into your draw pile and remove this card.

Expensive for what it does, but necessary to keep the Negotiation-Interrogation chain going. Note that although the game doesn't bother stating it, this card and Swift Negotiation are effectively different forms of each other - one turns into the other when played.



Attack an enemy hero within 2 hexes. If the attack hits, search Climax into your hand. Spawn an Interrogation in your discard pile and remove this card.

Much more desirable to play than Interrogation, this has enough range on it to get stacks on the enemy jungler instead of Qube's lane opponent if you're looking to set up for an objective fight as well as searching out Qube's initiation card for solo murderin'. Note that if you take the mastery to add Interrogation to your draw pile instead of your discard you can chain the two back to back across quick Deployment Phases to stack 5 Suspect on a laner quickly.

Target an enemy hero within 2 hexes; move to that target's hex and attack it. Search Interrogation or Swift Negotiation to your hand.

In isolation just a worse version of Swift Negotiation, this is primarily useful for closing a gap so that you can use Interrogation (and actually hit something with it instead of paying 2 SP to move 1 hex). Can be used to jump to an enemy jungler so you can beat them down instead of your lane opponent.



Starts a fight with all enemy heroes in Qube's hex, and all enemy heroes within 2 hexes that have at least one stack of Suspect; adds a stack of Suspect to each enemy that already has at least one. Fight duration is (Suspect stacks) rounds.

Relatively cheap initiation and can give a nice juicy 5 round fight against an isolated target; thanks to the Suspect targeting, this can allow you to pick a fight with, and kill, a laner even if their jungler is right next door. Be careful if trying to do the inverse however (fight a jungler but not your laner) because heroes on Qube's hex will join either way, and you really don't want to be fighting someone you haven't stacked up first. Also be careful about applying stacks to enemy junglers if you're not going into an objective fight soon, as you could wind up inadvertently preventing yourself from getting an isolated fight as a result.

Interactions:
No particular interactions beyond the standard multi-attack synergies/counters.
v2.1 | Qube
Itemisation improving multiple small hits boosts Qube's efficacy all the more. Her Variant is also pretty damn good. One of the winners of the update.

Variant 1

Changed - Qube's second attack deals 30% 15% damage for each Suspect stack.

Changed - Suspect stacks are removed at the end of a fight on death.

A very, very nice change. While it looks like a nerf - literally halving your Suspect damage per stack - it actually winds up being a buff in most cases because you're not going to have stacks drop off constantly from enemies starting little skirmishes or from them declining an objective fight. You can safely invest into adding Suspect stacks to everyone that comes near Qube, knowing you're very likely to see value from them sooner or later. Makes mid lane Qube notably stronger since she's more likely to be able to toss stacks on the jungler.
v3.1 | Qube
v3.1 Updates: Minor adjustments to reflect Felicity's arrival in the meta. Otherwise no real changes; she'll still beat the crap out of a squishy solo laner.

Item build: Bruiser and/or Multi-Hitter. Qube can work well with either sets of itemisation; as a general rule you should take the strongest items available from the latter (in other words, take Acceleration Coil) and then fill the rest of the build with Bruiser items since her kit is fundamentally built around AP. You can also build her glass cannon, though you'll need some high Presence tanks to keep her alive long enough to stack up.

Reserve Tactics: Poke cards, particularly Continuously Poke, do give Suspect stacks and are worth keeping in Reserve if you play Qube much. Alternatively, the unplayable cards can be useful - Suppression is a good way to maximise farm income if you wind up laning against something you can't solo kill, while Aggressive, Energy Boost and the like can help to give you the accuracy to keep the chain going.

Funnelling: Decent on both fronts. Qube needs to find a lot of her own cards to be able to reliably murder opposing laners, and thanks to her multi-hitter melee status makes great use of any stats you can throw at her. One of the better Funnel options around (that isn't an obvious choice, anyway).

Rejected gags:
I'm convinced there's a nail missing on the side of the bat you can't see. That's what she uses to keep her hat on.

I have no idea what's going on with Qube's aesthetic - the bright yellow eyeshadow, the dipped tips, the tiny hat - but I'm kind of into it. I didn't think a voxel game would awaken something in me.
Wukong
I'm in everything, and it's because I'm the best. I'm the greatest there is. It's definitely not because I'm in the public domain as an ancient Chinese myth. - Wukong

Name: Wukong

Position: Top

Role: Tank / Fighter

Mastery choices: Indestructible gives +100 max health / Bludgeon Bash reduces armour by 10 more.

Gain an additional 1% of your max health as AP / Gain an additional 1 armour per level.

Add a copy of Indestructible to your deck / Gain 1 Presence and 35 health per level.

Itemisation: Mostly tank. You may want to add some crit or other damage stat to take advantage of the AP bonus, but avoid flat AP since you get plenty from health.

Synergies: Minor synergies with some flat bonuses (e.g. Dylan).

Counters: Anything that relies on debuffs, notably Crank, Tiger Kid.

Countered by: Nothing really. Mihawk is about as close as it gets.

Summary: Extremely strong top laner with good damage, survivability, and debuff immunity.

Analysis: Wukong is a very, very good top laner. In fact, he has a strong claim on being the single best hero in the game, if such a thing exists - he has no real counters, he himself counters lots of different heroes, he's naturally very tanky but has substantial AP scaling, and all of his cards are good and worth playing.

This doesn't mean he's the right pick in every situation of course - while he's never bad, there will often be other heroes that fit your comp better than he does. It does however mean that your top laner should always be able to play Wukong well, because if nothing else the AI will ban him almost every time.

The one debatable point around Wukong is how much Presence to build on him. On the one hand, the more Presence he has the more likely it is that he'll intercept debuff-carrying attacks; on the other, he'll also intercept more damaging attacks and die sooner, leaving the rest of your team vulnerable. In my opinion, the default position should be to build limited amounts of Presence at most, relying on simple law of averages to assume he'll be hit sooner or later; only against very heavy debuff teams should you swap to building as much Presence as possible.

Note that technically Wukong cannot be affected by buffs either; however, this only applies to temporary buff effects. Permanent ones, such as Dylan's Green Bottle or Beverly's Renovation will work just fine (although since he doesn't have any kind of multiplier he's generally not the best target for AP buffs).

Cards:
Hit an enemy anywhere on the map, removing 25 armour for 10 rounds.

Amusingly the worst card in Wukong's deck is a card a lot of other heroes would die for. It can target any enemy on the map, shreds 25 armour (which is a crazy amount) for 10 rounds (which is a long ass time), and all for a fairly low cost. Great for use prior to burst or initiation. Now called Skullcracker. I don't know why either.




Start a fight with any enemy hero, and anyone within 1 tile, from anywhere on the map.

Essentially this is an entirely basic initiation card, but made infinitely better by giving it no range restriction. This means that Wukong, who is required to go top, can quite happily impact other lanes with no difficulty whatsoever.





300/400 increase to Wukong's max health for the rest of the game. Simple, but extremely effective, particularly with the bonus AP from health. You'll probably want to play this any time it's in your hand.








Interactions:
Counters: Tiger Boy, Lady Darkfire, Big Foot, Crank. While there are of course other heroes with debuffs that can be reflected (e.g. Shougong Lei), these are the big four that are basically defined by the debuffs they dish out [and then came Felicity]. Note that Wukong isn't just immune to the debuff, but actively reflects them onto the entire enemy team - so a single Tiger Boy attack will stun the entire enemy team simultaneously.
Wolfgang has a slightly unusual interaction, as his debuff is reflected while the drain proceeds as normal. If Wolfgang hits Wukong, he receives the AP and armour that he should get from Wukong (despite Wukong being immune). The debuff then applies to all of Wolfgang's team (including himself), reducing their AP and armour.

Mihawk - Mihawk's %health true damage is particularly effective into Wukong who relies heavily on stacking as much health as possible.

Fernan - Not quite a counter, but a relatively disadvantageous matchup. Fernan can hit Wukong and get his stack of Reshape, but the debuff goes onto his team; the debuff doesn't actually do anything deleterious. That means Fernan can keep stacking Reshape from slapping Wukong all day, and while he can't get Improved Reference from him, he does get it from his own team dying. Probably the only reasonably bad matchup Wukong has.
v2.1 | Wukong
Some small itemisation wins. His Variants are something of a mixed bag, but mostly just change what itemisation you're looking for - his role and pick priority remain largely unchanged.

Variant 1

Changed - When Wukong would be inflicted with a debuff, that debuff is reflected onto all enemy units one random enemy unit.

Changed - Wukong gains AP equal to 2% 5% of his max health.

This variant makes Wukong substantially worse at his counterpick role (though still very good); in exchange he becomes a pretty nasty beatstick in all circumstances. This Variant changes Wukong from a hero you take as a counterpick but who works well in general, to a hero you take as a high priority bruiser in general with the debuff-countering an added bonus.

Variant 2

Changed - Wukong gains AP equal to 2% 1% of his max health.

Gained - Wukong gains an additional 100 max health per level.

A minor nerf overall - you'll pretty much never get enough health from levels to make up for the AP you're losing, but you get enough health in exchange to make Wukong a more durable tank. In versions with strong single damage items (e.g. Heavy Dumbbell, Gravity Converter) can work out to being a small buff.
v3.1 | Wukong
v3.1 Updates: Added in notes around Felicity and Fernan. Nothing else to note. Wukong's still great. They did change the name of one of his cards for no reason though.

Item build: Anything from the Pure Tank, One Damage Item and/or Bruiser categories. Generally the optimal build in my experience is to grab the best armour item you can as your first item, grab a damage item second (ideally Gravity Converter/Dumbbell), then any generic tank or bruiser item third depending on whether you want Presence on him or not.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing really stand-out. Is one of the few top laners that can really justify the investment into Hot Hands, though, since he uses stats so well. Could also justify a Solo Show pick if you really want to go ham on building him up. Since The Descent does actually move Wukong to the targeted hex, I could see an argument for taking Clash as a follow-up if you don't secure all the kills (referred to in this circumstance as 'bayonetting the survivors').

Funnelling: Good for tutoring, you want to play Indestructible a lot and The Descent is just generic good stuff. Not the best target for bonus stats, but will happily soak any random health buffs you've got lying around at least.

Rejected gags:
Unlike Bond, this really is a monkey that can go anywhere. Or at least anywhere there's something to hit with a stick.
v2.1 | Qin Hu
One of the shadiest employers on the job market, Qin Hu is notorious for hiring an underling for every attack and then firing them as soon as it lands. He does, at least, provide protective gear for his Wardens.

Name: Qin Hu

Position: Top / Mid / Support

Role: Support-Mage

Mastery Choices: Warden gains 25 more armour. Homefront provides an additional 25% of Qin Hu's AP as a shield. / Attack Order's cost reduces by 1. Victory Rush provides an additional 5% of the slain unit's AP.

Gain an additional 4.5 AP per level. / The Warden gains 2 Presence and 300 max health. [AP works out to 11.25 max health per level]

Itemisation: Flat AP

Synergies: Squishy solo laners

Counters: Kill-dependent heroes such as Lan.

Countered by: Specific targeting, Foso

Summary: A vanilla vector for a very expensive bodyguard.

Analysis: Qin Hu himself is an entirely generic, if passable, hero. His main draw is his Warden - a fairly tanky summon which, uniquely, joins any fight anywhere on the map, regardless of Qin Hu's position (assuming he's alive, anyway). This is both a blessing and a curse - it lets him provide support constantly with no prior setup needed, including defensively, but also makes it much more likely that the Warden will fall over sooner or later. The big problem with the Warden is that, useful though it is, reviving it requires a hideously painful 6 SP card to be both found and played - and until you do, Qin Hu himself is pretty useless.

Having said that, the Warden can be incredibly useful in the right comp. Its ability to pop up anywhere without setup allows for an important layer of protection for squishy solo laners like Niels (and in fact any mage mid-laner); this is particularly evident in the early game when damage is lower relative to health pools and securing kills often comes down to the last attack thrown. The Warden might be extremely expensive to replace, but when the alternative is a successful enemy gank you'll usually be happy to pay the price.

Qin Hu's other contribution to the team comes in the form of his Tactical Target debuff - on entering a fight, you simply pick an enemy unit and shred 20 of its armour. If you can manage to kill that unit your entire team gets 15% of the slain unit's AP - basically giving you a team-wide Kid proc. You're heavily incentivised to throw this on a squishy - 20 armour is more impactful on low armour targets, they're more likely to die, and they give you more AP when they do - which in turn means you get some degree of synergy from heroes you can target-select with (e.g. Xiangxi Ke).

Given that Qin Hu's power all lies in support functions you might reasonably think that he would function better in the Support position. In actuality the truth is quite the opposite - the Warden is basically the entire reason you're drafting him, and its stats scale nicely with both levels and AP. Unless you're trying to protect multiple squishy solo laners you'll probably want him in a solo lane himself to get the extra gold and XP to ensure that protection is worth the SP you're paying for it. He can still function acceptably from the Support role - you'll just hate paying that 6 SP even more.

Taken in total, Qin Hu winds up being a pretty mid-tier pick in each possible position. He doesn't really excel at anything (besides protection), but packs a decent set of cards and utility functions to make him work in a lot of comps.

Cards:
Gains a charge every 25 rounds (max 2). When played, expend a charge and discard your hand, then search both of Qin Hu's hero cards plus one hero card from each other hero.

A handy (ha) reset, this card is much like Qin Hu himself - doesn't really excel at anything since it only searches out one card for each hero, but acts as a nice, solid toolbox in a variety of situations. Having said that, nine times out of ten you'll be playing this because your Warden fell over and you need to find a replacement. Note that this tutors hero cards, not just cards, so it won't grab Tactics cards; whether that's good or bad is entirely situational.

Respawns the Warden and grants a shield of 100% of Qin Hu's AP to all allied heroes.

Painfully expensive, yet nonetheless necessary to play if you don't want to forfeit Qin Hu's entire reason for existence. The shield is very much an afterthought (or, more accurately, an apology for the cost); nonetheless, it gives you another reason to put him in a position to gain some decent AP and has some minor synergy with shield-benefitting heroes like Foso and Felyn.



Each allied hero attacks an enemy within 1 hex. If a hero has no valid targets, they push once instead.

Generally a bit too expensive for what you're really using it for (which is typically for a specific hero to get an attack off); the cost reduction from mastery is necessary to make it a good play. This card leans into the idea that you can use the Warden in place of a real tank, since the more damage-oriented heroes you've got the more value you'll get from it. Note that if you've got ways to bring your team together around a single enemy you can use this to dogpile them, which is pretty funny (if unreliable without good field hit).

Interactions:
Warden: Since it's basically the only reason Qin Hu exists, anything which reduces the Warden's usefulness makes Qin Hu a worse pick. Notably, Lubos can make it semi-irrelevant (unless the target can win the damage race in a Duel, the Warden accomplishes nothing), while Foso facerolls it like she does every other summon.

Weakest Link: Tactical Target/Victory Rush likes high AP, low health, easily targeted enemies - squishy melee heroes like Lan are ideal. If your opponent picks a squishy solo lane melee early for some reason, Qin Hu can form the start of a nasty comp; victimise that solo lane and you can give yourself a very easy target to pick off early into teamfights for a nice AoE AP buff.

Stop Resisting: Attack Order is usually pretty mediocre, but if you can gather a lot of heroes in one place it suddenly becomes potent. Felicity's Return to Embrace can pull a lot of heroes together ready for a big fight - at which point Attack Order suddenly delivers an awful lot of relevant damage. If you can isolate a single target to be beaten on, you can also pretend you're a typical US police force arresting a suspect.
v3.1 | Qin Hu
v3.1 Updates: Complete 180 on my recommended Mastery choices, I now believe the best choice is to make the Warden as beefy as possible because if you're not relying on it, you'd have picked someone else (and because it's so painfully expensive to resummon). Also fixed my referring to him as a mage in the text - that's how you should think when itemising him, but he's actually physical (I'm not actually sure if that was always the case or not). Further tweaked things here and there to add clarifications.

Item build: Mage, despite not having access to magical items. All you really want on Qin Hu is AP, the more of it the better; more AP means a beefier Warden, and again, if you didn't care about the Warden you'd have brought someone better. Defences should be redundant with your summon around, while crit is inefficient.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing much. Solo Show can give you both the cards and the SP to bring back the Warden if it falls over, but that's an awfully big investment to make.

Funnelling: Probably not. Can make decent use of bonus AP to continue to bulk up the Warden, but that's about it; Qin Hu's cards are ones you play when you have to, not because you want to.

Rejected gags:
Qin Who? - Most people who play this game. Because, y'know, he's unpopular. Get it? You get it.

You'd think losing an eye would prompt him to revise his 'only the lower face' helmet policy, but I guess he's stubborn. Maybe he just wants to show off those killer eyebrows.
v3.1 | Chen Fengcheng
He heard there was a ninja around masquerading as a pirate, and so arrived to teach her a lesson - by killing everyone, stealing their stuff, and ignoring her entirely.

Name: Chen Fengcheng

Position: Top / Jungle / Mid

Role: Fighter

Mastery choices: Gain 4 Ship Coins per round; Reward and Punish generates 50% more gold. / Gain 4 Ship Coins per round; Reward and Punish generates 50% more Ship Coins.

Gain 3 Ship Coins per round; special attack deals an extra 35 x level damage. / Gain 3 Ship Coins per round; gain 50 Ship Coins when participating in a kill.

Itemisation: One Slap Chap

Synergies: Nothing too notable.

Counters: Isolated squishies.

Countered by: Ganks of any kind, Anna (first turn armour)

Summary: Bruiser that shows up with a big hit and then does little else.

Analysis: Our first DLC 2 hero to look at is, unfortunately, the least interesting. Chen Fengcheng (hereafter referred to as Chen because I'm lazy) has two mechanics in his toolbox, both of which revolve around Ship Coins. He generates 20 Ship Coins per turn on the field, plus an extra 4, 3 and 3 from masteries (total of 30 for those of you that are REALLY bad at maths).

These Ship Coins have two uses. Their main use is on entering objective fights (or any fight after use of Expedition Preparation). In these circumstances Chen will start the round by crashing an inexplicably ghostly ship into the enemy team; total damage is equal to his Ship Coins plus 100/135 per level. This damage is applied evenly across the team (before mitigation). The second, much less interesting use is through Divide the Spoils, which splits half his Ship Coins as gold between all living heroes.

The main point of interest for Chen is that his special attack's damage is divided between enemies. The actual base damage is pretty high - he can easily be putting out ~2000 damage in early fights - but when split across a lot of enemies it becomes just a gentle tap. To really see value from it you're going to need small fights, at most two enemies (preferably one); anything more and it'll water down too much. The trouble with that, however, is that his special attack is all he's got; once it's spent he's left with wet noodle slaps for attacks and nothing else. This leaves you in the awkward position of either needing to be targeting a single very squishy opponent, or having a pocket jungler around to deal the actual damage.

This is further exacerbated by the fact that you're not getting the special attack at all (outside objective fights) unless you play the painfully expensive Expedition Preparation first, and that gets eaten from a single fight unless that fight is coming from Chen's own initiation card. So not only do you need very specific fight participation, you also need a very specific card to be initiating with. And on top of that, if the enemy team initiate a fight with him, say goodbye to your boat.

All of this could be taken to mean he's a bad hero. He's actually not - he just needs to specifically sit in top lane, where he'll rarely be ganked and he's got a reasonable shot at pulling in a 1v1 or 2v1 fight with Burn, Kill and Loot. You'll hopefully only need to drop the 5 SP once or twice in the game, and can smash the (presumably squishy) opposing laner to pieces with your weaponised maritime vessel. A very specific pick, then - but an effective one.

Cards:
When Chen next participates in a fight, he may use his special attack. This effect is not expended when participating in objective fights, the Final Fight, or if initiated by Burn, Kill and Loot.

This is essentially your tax for playing Chen. It does absolutely nothing on its own, so you're paying 5 SP so that he actually does something when he next fights. For obvious reasons, you reeeeeally want to avoid situations that will make you pay that 5 SP again.



Initiate a fight on an enemy hero within 2 hexes. 2 hex radius, 3 round duration. If you kill something, search Divide the Spoils after the fight.

And this is how you get to use the boat without paying more taxes (who'd have thought a pirate would be all about tax evasion). A decent range, 2 hex-radius initiation would be a good card on most heroes, but for Chen that radius is a severe detriment - the last thing he wants is other people soaking some of the blast. This card is a great argument for passing Deployment Phases with little to no SP expenditure repeatedly, waiting for the perfect opportunity - you want your jungler to path near top while the enemy jungler is bot side. Incidentally, for those of you considering a little pirating yourself, this would be a terrible order to do things in - you'll only be looting ashes. Instead, kill first, loot, then burn last.

Attack an enemy hero within 1 hex. Attack always hits, and Chen gains gold and Ship Coins equal to the damage dealt.

Doesn't look impressive on the surface - just Hass' Shadow Blade but paying 1 less SP for half as much gold. The real value is in the Ship Coins though - your one attack's worth of damage is converted into Coins which will then apply that damage to every boat-bomb for the rest of the game. If you're playing to pick up isolated top lane kills (and you should be, if you're picking Chen) then that's definitely worth the SP cost.


All living heroes (friend or foe) gain gold; the amount is equal to 50% of Chen's Ship Coins divided equally among them.

The much less impressive payoff for your Ship Coins. Since the gold is divided between both teams, you're specifically looking to play this when you have more living heroes than the opposing team does; however, if only one enemy is dead (i.e. a 5-4 split) you're only getting a tiny relative gold gain (1/18th of Chen's Ship Coins is the delta). It's a benefit, sure, but a tiny one. There are two ways to use this, therefore - you can either avoid playing it at all unless the stars align and you get a great fight result, or (if you're smart) you can tailor your item builds towards more expensive items and play this whenever you have it. If both teams get extra gold, the ones with the more expensive items benefit more. Alternatively, just hit tab in every DP and see if you'll hit an item spike by playing this.
Note that while it's not made very clear, these are one-time-use - you get one for each equipment you activate. That's arguably a good thing, because it protects your deck from this mediocrity.

Interactions:
Damn you, Anna - Turns out when literally all your power is in the first round, you get screwed if the enemy team have a lot of armour that round. Arguably a hard counter.

Not Charming - You'd think Divide the Spoils would pair nicely with Gillis' Charm to generate bonus gold. Unfortunately, it really isn't - the actual gold gain is minimal, so paying an extra 4 SP to replicate it really doesn't do much. If you're running an Acedia already, on the other hand, it's a little extra on the side I suppose.

Centaurs are bad sailors - Unfortunately Reinhardt is not the great synergy you'd hope for with Chen thanks to the foibles of action order. Chen will smash his ship to splinters for the eighth time that game, then Reinhardt will shred the enemies' armour afterwards. They really need to have a chat with each other.
v3.1 | Chen Fengcheng (cont.)
v3.1 Updates: Added. Obviously.

Item build: One slap chap. He gets his one big attack off (you hope), then down to lacklustre bruiser stats for the rest of the fight. You can itemise him with maximised AP - that will give him extra damage for Reward and Punish and also the damage to follow up in his solo fights - but expect him to severely underperform in teamfights if you do.

Reserve Tactics: None in particular. There's an argument for cards like Teleporting for Support, or movement cards on your jungler, to try to manipulate good Burn, Kill and Loot initiations.

Funnelling: Tutoring is decent, since you'll want to Burn, Kill and Loot whenever you have a good opening to justify the prep cost. Stat gains aren't, really, since there's no AP scaling on the special attack - you'll get some benefit through increased Reward and Punish damage.

Rejected gags:
"Aye, I know me ship has cannons - but that would be hard to animate. Now, ramming speed!" - Chen Fengcheng
v3.1 | Fernan
They told me I could go anywhere. Do anything. SO I DID. - Fernan

Name: Fernan

Position: Top / Jungle / Mid / Bot

Role: Fighter

Mastery choices: In the first Deployment Phase search Ephemeral Collection to your hand. / Ephemeral Collection cost reduced by 2.

Mirror Flash cost reduced by 1. / Gain 3 AP per level.

Itemisation: Bruiser

Synergies: Nothing special

Counters: Nothing specific

Countered by: Hass (Reshape stolen)

Summary: Absurdly flexible bruiser with middling in-fight performance.

Analysis: Hoo boy, this guy. There's an absurd number of interactions possible with Fernan, so many that they're getting their own section below... but I suspect he'll be the reason for half my post-3.1 views, so I'mma have to do him justice. Strap in folks, this'll be a long one.

To start with Fernan's cards are... weird. Weird because they mostly involve stealing other peoples' cards and using those instead. That's such a mixed bag that I'm just going to ignore it for now and we'll talk about it in that section. Instead, let's talk about fights.

In fights, Fernan has some awkward mechanics. When he hits an enemy hero he gains a stack of Reshape, giving himself 5 armour, 5% lifesteal and 8% bonus AP (the only hero in the game with innate lifesteal besides Nihil, incidentally). He then applies the Reference debuff to that target. Importantly, Reference does nothing whatsoever to the target; it's there essentially as a way to say 'Fernan already got his Reshape stack from this target'. If a target with Reference dies, however, Fernan gets 8% of their AP and removes all of the other Reference debuffs. The AP gain is permanent, though the game doesn't make that clear initially. It's also snapshotted at the moment you gain it - you don't get more AP when the target does.

This is a lot of moving parts to essentially just give you a fairly resilient bruiser. While he does gain AP from two different sources, in both cases the numbers are low enough that Fernan's never going to take over a game from them - they're just high enough to allow him to exist and not be ignored.

In isolation, Fernan's kit makes him a passable, resilient bruiser in a similar category to Nihil - never getting enough power to dumpster opponents, but existing as a hard-to-kill hero that still outputs passable damage. This needs to be taken in the context of his absurd cards, though, which can massively warp what he's able to do in fights. As a result, whether he's worth playing entirely depends on what interactions you can squeeze out of him; generally you'll want to sit him in top lane unless there are specific cards you're targeting.

His cards though... oh boy.

Cards:
Pick a card from the hero you targeted [with Extract Memory]. Create a copy in hand belonging to Fernan and give it Single-Use and Vanish.

Generated through Extract Memory and nothing else. Costs nothing and will disappear when you end your turn, so make sure you play it unless you really don't want anything they're offering.





Move to any spot on the field. The cost of this card then becomes equal to the number of hexes travelled [base cost 2].

Just as screwy in its own way as the rest of Fernan's kit, you can literally have him appear wherever the hell you want him to. Use caution though - if you go too far, you'll basically render this card unplayable for the rest of the game, so make sure you're okay with that. Importantly, if you've got a cost discount applied to this card, try to make sure you play it even if you don't want to move - if you play it and choose to go nowhere, you set its cost to 0 for when you do need it.

Single use. Pick an enemy hero, then pick one of their cards; add a copy of that card to your hand. It's controlled by Fernan, has 3/4 tokens on it, and is removed when the last token is expended.

And this is where it starts. Importantly, despite the game stating 'a hero' in the card text, this is limited to enemies only. Pick a card, any card... and take it. Note that Ephemeral Collection (EC) is single-use, unlike Extract Memory (EM), and the generated card is not; that means you should avoid using it to grab single-use cards, since you'll still only get the one use from them. Instead, use EC to grab things you want to play several times (and for a more efficient SP price), while using EM to grab the singletons. Gets a lot less painful to play once you have the mastery to drop its cost to 2.

Target an enemy hero (global) and Attack. If you hit, spawn Reappearance in your hand linked to that hero.

The much worse version of Ephemeral Collection, this costs the same (with masteries) but needs you to land an attack and only generates single-use cards. Still allows some ridiculous things to be done. Note that the card generated doesn't vanish if unplayed (unlike Reappearance), so you can grab unplayable cards like Cache without penalty; the card does vanish if it leaves your hand though.


Interactions:
Fuggen everyone: Yeah, Fernan is weird, that's why he has his own section. Things get weird when he's around.

Wukong - No interaction. Note that I mistakenly indicated previously that Wukong would reflect Reference, which is not the case. Oops.

Hass: As with any hero that buffs themselves, Hass will make Fernan very sad. Avoid.

Everyone else: Seriously, he's weird. You might not be counterpicked, but you might be taking cards from someone who'll make you counterpicked. Give it a lot of thought or just throw him in there and have fun with it, your call.
v3.1 | Fernan (cont.)
v3.1 Updates: Added, to my chagrin.

Item build: By default, you want Bruiser/Mage items on Fernan - he doesn't have big enough steroids or any multi-hits to really justify heavy AP gain, but he needs at least some damage to be an actual threat. Don't leave him too squishy since Reshape stacks are unreliable to generate.

Reserve Tactics: There's an argument for Find Another Chance or Patient Waiting to keep an EM-generated card around until you actually want to play it. Clear Mind is also more likely to get value since you're generating cards over on the left of your hand (and so can get value if that's where Clear Mind is).

Funnelling: Probably not worth tutoring unless there's something really good you're looking for. Decent target for stats, though, since he's bulky enough to stick around to use them and has enough AP to deal decent damage.

Rejected gags:
Just look at that douchey smirk. He knows he's messing up my screenshots by refusing to sit still. He knows.

Had his hair styled to create an ahoge[animanga.fandom.com] specifically to audition for a role in Danganronpa 2x2, not realising that all the old cast were returning. He's still bitter about it.
v3.1 | Fernan Interactions (Good)
Right, here we go. I'm going to be separating these out by hero, and into three categories:
Good - These heroes are a reason to pick Fernan.
OK - Not reasons to pick Fernan, but their cards will do if you need a target.
Bad - Their cards are terrible for Fernan, don't take them.

Good
Aurelio - Protagonist is great, and Inferno March will let you steal chunks of the enemy jungle while refunding most of the cost. Note that you won't be able to use Protagonist to tutor Flame Assault unless you use EC to create one first.
Peiniang Zhu - Since EM disregards token limits, you can play Thundercloud more than she can, and with solo lane levels. Kinda filthy.
Tiger Boy - Weirdly good, Whimsy will draw cards while refunding your investment with its discount. Double Trouble does, in fact, let you become a Tiger Boy with better stats.
BaJie - Pay 2 SP, generate a card that prints free money. Probably the best reason to keep a Patient Waiting in reserve.
Reinhardt - Cavalry Charge will let you start fights in bot lane from top lane (if the stars align). Supersonic is a decent utility tool, albeit at a huge SP premium.
Lubos - Duel is a fantastic way to murder solo tanks in top lane since it has no round limit on it. Knight's Oath also isn't terrible if your other lanes are getting ganked a lot.
Cubey - Great. You don't get his Evolution passive or anything, but you're still generating bonus stats. Little expensive, but worthwhile.
Hakuna - Dominant Onslaught lets you mess with mid from the comfort of your island. Note you'll get the Plunders after the fight (if you kill things), there's no need to spend 2 SP on generating them directly unless you've got a turret on 1 hp you really want knocked over.
Niels - Bound has some niche application, but the main reason this is in the Good category is you can generate Revelation to get the field power without having to, y'know, play Niels.
Babe - Gift Bundle is worth using to grab free cheap stats. Make sure you use EC to get it so it doesn't vanish, though, and remember you're capped at 25 stacks since you don't have his masteries.
Crank - Oblivion is too expensive for Crank to play for the sole reason that he can already apply his passive by attacking things. You can't. Steal it and play it right before an objective fight to get Crank's inevitability.
Paisai - Elixir and Barbarian Runes both have such good utility that they're worth playing even at a premium. Barbarian Runes in particular is a great EC target.
Lan - Since Step A/B/C all generate each other, you only have to EM one of them to become bootleg Lan - start with C for a head start. Save EC for Reboot since Step C is single-use anyway and generates a fresh Step A when played.
Ada - She has to complete an entire equipment to get a Mod Upgrade; you just need to hit an attack. On the other hand, she only pays 2 SP for it and you pay 6, so I guess that evens out. Remember Mod Upgrade is single-use, don't waste your EC.
Qin Hu - Okay, sure, Homefront is even more expensive for you than it is for Qin Hu. On the other hand, playing it makes you now do literally everything relevant that Qin Hu does. Until that Warden dies, you're a better version of Qin Hu than Qin Hu is.
Quinn - EC her Tea Time and get yourself ~50% crit by the end of the game. Yes. Very yes.
Foso - She only gets a single copy of Libra for a reason. You get as many as you want. Remember not to waste EC on it (though Astral Guardian isn't a terrible EC target).
Anna - Your choice between generating one of the three single-use cards immediately at a fair price, or generating Floral Language to get them later at a much better one. Either is solid.
Leon - Generate Eternal Brand (remember, single use, don't EC) and you can steal his effect - but bear in mind you don't auto-target Branded heroes because that's Leon's passive. You can grab Nightmare Slayer from EC if you want to murder your targets occasionally, but you're usually better off Branding tanks to give you some inevitability on them since you're not getting the focus targeting.
Felicity - Most of her cards are bad for you, but Return to Embrace can still net positive with the right setup. Blessing may be relevant in very niche scenarios.
Omaha - Traitor birb is here to help. You can steal both of Omaha's cards and get the benefit of the birb. Note that Wild Heart's stats are based on Fernan's, not Omaha's, so presumably it's actually Wild Heart's stunt double finally getting a moment in the spotlight.
v3.1 | Fernan Interactions (OK)
OK
Bunu Shan - Outburst and Wrath are both solid cards.
Wukong - Indestructible is still good paying an SP premium and not getting HP -> AP scaling. The Descent lets Fernan get involved while sitting in top lane.
Bart - Very expensive, but getting Metal Fatigue without having to commit to a dumb brick wall tank is useful.
Kid - Great cards, but already expensive before you're having to dump 2 SP to get them.
Elemi - Generally underwhelming, especially since you won't have Overclocking without paying even more SP for it, but they'll do if you've got nothing else to spend your SP on. Very good if you're playing with an attribute advantage.
Manta - A whole lot of middling cards. Much like Elemi, they'll do if you need to dump SP.
Kamaitachi - Much worse for Fernan, since you don't have Kamaitachi's passive to proc off the discards; can still be okay if you really need to fish for other cards. Best use is to grab Meisou and manipulate your SP to start the next DP with it at the right of your hand.
Gillis - Decent cards, but way too expensive to be generating this way. Enchanting Invasion isn't the worst thing in the world to grab, though, since you can Mirror Flash into the perfect spot for it.
Blocker - Lots of SP investment required - you'll need to EM an Interference Field first, then EC a Signal Detection - but then gives you a great tutor effect that'll last all game. Note you don't get the shielding/armour effects from Interference Field, those are his passive.
Palulu - Decent cards, but a bit too expensive for what they do even on Palulu. On the other hand, you probably have more SP behind you.
Frank - Generating Painful Pleasure will be net positive on SP, but to get it you'll either have to give Frank health (EM) or only get one use out of your EC card. You'll then get beaten senseless for using it. Still probably worth it though.
Hass - He's a Shadow Imitator, you're a Shadow Imitator Imitator. If you target Hass directly, then he targets you, you can wind up in a recursion of infinitely growing stats. Would be in the Good category if his in-fight mechanics didn't counter yours.
Miki - Avoid generating Seize the Initiative, the SP will net zero so all you're doing is drawing cards. Chicken Charge is a decent way to impact mid, though.
Peter - Shield Impact is obviously expensive as hell, but Hyper Protection is a good way to heal up in lane. Can a decent Shield Bomb if you've got something like a Hass or Cubey to generate bonus health from, though you lack the mastery to make it lethal.
Enidi - Not the most efficient play you'll ever see, but lots of decently cheap attack cards you can clone for some chip damage.
Digo - Generally way too expensive, but Dominance can give you a pretty brutal fight if you time it right and/or combine with the right Tactics cards.
Xiangxi Ke - Mostly iffy, Blitz can work in a pinch. Generating Old Time will give you Reaper stacks, but you'll probably have to wait until it falls out of your hand unless you really want to double down.
Justice - Stealing I Am Justice will give you two stacks of Justice's passive, but you won't generate more from either fight attacks or Justice Slash. If you play it twice the game will tell you he'll get the execute, but this is a lie. The stats are nice, though, and I guess you could then steal Justice Execute later.
Zealot - Devour is way too expensive, and Assimilation is just a decent poke card unless you first EC an Engage. If you do, though, you get a solid combo at a playable cost (rather than the obnoxiously good cost Zealot gets it).
Lady Deadfire - Generally her cards are expensive even for her, but you do get Dark Flame stacks from playing them (though not for the movement part).
Charon - VERY expensive, but Death Finger is very potent, so consider it a niche choice.
Tivie - Avoid Melody of Revive. Rain of Life can have niche use if you need to heal AND get rid of a debuff (it's too pricey to do only one). The main draw is Heaven Rainfall, which can still net positive on SP even while costing 3.
Bond - Monkey See isn't a terrible use of SP to give you targeting for your next fight. The other two cards aren't worth it though.
Wolfgang - Chain of War will never be worth grabbing since you'd need to EC it, then repeatedly EM Devouring Soul to give it tokens. Devouring Soul alone is a good way to stabilise in lane, though, and Haunting Coil will apply Wolfgang's passive.
Fatty White - Mostly bad, but Throw Snowballs is a slightly worse version of Skullcracker if you need a pre-fight boost.
v3.1 | Fernan Interactions (Bad)
Bad
Bariel - Cannon Strike is overpriced, and Charge won't do anything unless you already generated Into The Breach. Stealing the latter amounts to paying 2 SP to generate an Initiate Tactics card.
Shougong Lei - Obnoxiously expensive cards, entirely balanced around Fragile. Fernan doesn't have Fragile, so these are basically unplayable.
Beverly - You'd think being able to get Beverly's schtick without her useless vanilla body would be great... but you're having to pay 2 SP to EM a Designation before Renovation even does anything, and you're not getting the chunk of extra stats and Mech Mastery she gets from her Mastery tree. Horrifically inefficient.
Big Foot - Already overpriced cards when Big Foot has them, you really don't want to spend SP just to get them. Note Rapid Cooling will not let you hold onto an EM generated card since it leaves your hand first.
Deep Space - Pay a lot of SP to generate Missiles that you then have no way to dump without spending more SP. Pass.
Kaka - You don't have a dog, Fernan, what are you even doing. Hilariously, Stone Curse will still cost you 2 SP if you generate it, even as it buffs nothing.
Mo - Generally not worth anything to you; you're not generating bounties like Mo is, and the main draw of Slayer's Intuitiion is how cheap it is... for him.
Mihawk - You don't have his passive, so you can't generate tokens for his cards. Literally your best play is paying 5 SP for a vanilla Drain the Soul, that's how bad it is.
Dylan - Pay double the SP for weaker copies of Dylan's cards which then cost you gold unless you pay another 2 SP for a Balance which will vanish once it leaves hand. Yeah, no. Technically will net positive on gold if you clone a Blue Pill on your first turn, use it on Fernan and never die... but there really must be better uses for your first turn SP.
Acedia - You're wide awake my dude. Fernan can't generate Sleepiness stacks, so avoid unless you want to pay 5 SP for a Good Night for some reason.
Merisi - The AP gain is from tokens on Fight in the Prison so you'll have to EC that first, then start paying 3 SP to EM Intimidations. Your reward is a tiny amount of AP and an EC card that might become playable by the end of the game. Nope.
Gang - Gang blows himself up to generate AP. You don't do the latter.
Qube - You don't get her passive, so you just have a selection of poke cards at an exorbitant price. Pass.
Felyn - You don't get her passive either, so no Energy Level. Assault Mode is playable, though, if you desperately need shielding and/or poke.
Nihil - Even Nihil doesn't like Nihil's cards. If he did, he wouldn't be so edgy about them.
Matata - Once again, you don't get his passive so his cards are all vanilla garbage at a ludicrous price.
Chen Fengcheng - Ye don't have a boat, landlubber. Reward and Punish gives gold but no Ship Coins, Expedition Preparation does literally nothing, and you can't even generate Divide the Spoils.
Raven - Never, EVER more. No feathers means two of his cards straight up can't be cloned, while the third means paying 2 SP to move 1 hex.
Junglers
Tier list:

Key
S Tier: Heroes that can be safely blind-picked, with no real counters, strong cards and which counter some heroes; or heroes that have the potential to completely take over a game in the right comp

A Tier: Solid picks which have few counters, if any, and which can generally perform at least adequately in any given situation while having strong potential to excel, but lack some key tool(s) for being a complete package; or heroes that can become extremely powerful with the right comp and setup

B Tier: Heroes who are very situational, only working well with a great setup and/or against specific enemy heroes or comps (e.g. counterpicks); or heroes that can become extremely powerful, but are heavily countered by too many heroes to feasibly ban out for; or heroes that are good in fights but have terrible cards, or vice versa.

C Tier: Heroes that generally don't perform amazingly; they lack the tools to excel, meaning the best they can hope for is to perform their role in a satisfactory fashion.

D Tier: Heroes that will pretty much never do anything, really. This is the only tier of heroes you should generally avoid.

Explanations

S Tier: Kamaitachi is probably the single best general-purpose jungle Fighter, only let down by his lack of initiation. Zealot, meanwhile, can be utterly dominant if properly supported.

A Tier: Nihil and Reinhardt are solid frontline picks who don't need much in the way of assistance. Aurelio's kit is perfect for jungling and providing substantial teamfight damage, while Gillis will inevitably build up a big gold lead.

B Tier: Mostly situational picks. Hakuna is underwhelming but the best choice for a pure tank in the jungle. Mo varies between C and S tier depending on the current ruleset (i.e. whether he gets extra bounties or not).

C Tier: Bariel doesn't know what he wants to be; if you really want an ADC in the jungle, take Bond. Lubos, meanwhile, has situational appeal but ultimately doesn't bring enough to the team.

D Tier: Kaka sucks. 'Nuff said.

Drafting for Jungle

If I'm on blue side (and so single first pick) I'll usually draft a jungler with a plan in mind; if I'm planning on supporting my jungle I'll go for S tier, and if not, usually A tier unless I've got a specific plan in mind or I'm feeling spicy. Jungle bans usually aren't necessary unless you need to ban Gillis to avoid a counterpick.
v2.1 | Junglers

Itemisation and my evolving thinking has caused a few shifts here. Nothing groundbreaking in its novelty though.

S Tier: Aurelio was already right on the cusp of S tier; gaining some solid extra crit itemisation finally gets him there. Zealot has a new major counter, but only the one, so the impact on your pick/ban isn't big enough to lose him his spot.

A Tier: Raven arrives and grabs himself a spot in A tier thanks to his potential to dominate, but misses out on S tier due to being useless if not being focussed on. Hakuna also makes the jump into A tier - this isn't down to any changes, I just think I underrated him before.

C Tier: Matata is mediocre at the best of times. The jungle - where he can't really use his Heavy Slash to shred armour - is not the best of times.
v3.1 | Junglers

A lot of changes arising as a result of my updated thinking, most notably the jungle ADCs rising up. Four of the five new heroes can be played in jungle, and while none of them make S tier there are some solid picks amongst them.

S Tier: No changes. Kamaitachi might have fallen down to A due to increasing numbers of good picks being available, but Reserve Tactics suddenly appear and patch his initiation-less weakness.

A Tier: A lot of changes here. Nihil falls to B tier much as he does in top lane - he's a solid but generic bruiser and deserves a solid but generic ranking. Bond and Bariel both jump all the way up to A tier as I come to recognise that the combination of good mobility, average initiation and great damage give them a lot of skirmish power even if it does really push the frontline responsibilities onto your solo lanes. Finally, Felicity and Leon show up here; Felicity has a great kit but doesn't quite have the damage to really back up ganks off standard initiation cards, while Leon is a very specialised tool that you won't want in every game.

B Tier: Nihil falls to here and Bond leaves for better things, but otherwise no changes. Still decent heroes that can do their jobs in the right comp but don't jump out.

C Tier: No sooner does Bariel leave than two new heroes arrive to take his place. Fernan has an acceptable bruiser kit, but absolutely nothing to give you a reason to put him in the jungle - he lacks the damage for good skirmishing, he's not strong enough early to want to push him into objective fights, and he has no initiations without stealing them or relying on generics. Chen Fengcheng, meanwhile, brings absolutely nothing to the table in the jungle role besides a mediocre initiation, and only avoids D tier because he at least has a passable bruiser statline.

D Tier: Kaka remains, as always, utter garbage. Poor guy.
Aurelio
The gift of fire is mine. I wield the ever-burning flame, harnessing its almighty magic to smite my foes with the most potent force known to man - a big ol' sword. - Aurelio

Name: Aurelio

Position: Top / Jungle / Mid

Role: Fighter

Mastery choices: Protagonist applies an additional Flame stack / Inferno March cost reduced by 1

Flame provides 6 armour per stack / Flame provides an additional 8% crit damage per stack

Gain an additional 3% crit damage per level / Gain 35 health per level, and increase Presence by 1.

Itemisation: Mix of damage and survivability items; you may want a single crit rate item for reliability in the early parts of a fight, but no more than that. Crit damage, on the other hand, is very effective.

Synergies: Dylan (Strengthening Potion), Felicity (great card synergy)

Counters: None

Countered by: Bart (Crit immunity), Hass (Flame stealing)

Summary: Strong all-rounder Fighter, stacks up a huge amount of crit and crit damage.

Analysis: Aurelio is a solid generic Fighter choice. He's pretty decently tanky, but more importantly, can build up to deal a substantial amount of damage thanks to his Flame mechanic. It's important to note that the Flame buff can stack up as much as you like, but he can only gain one stack per enemy hero in fights - that means that if you want him to go off in a big way, you're going to need to play Protagonist as many times as possible prior to an important fight.

Regardless of how many stacks he can get, though, it's entirely possible for Aurelio to get stuck on a single target, often a tank, and wind up being extremely underwhelming in fights; if he can't get attacks on multiple targets to reach high crit levels and a high crit damage multiplier, he's not going to perform. This means that generally you don't want to prioritise him against balanced enemy teams with both solid frontline and backline. Instead, pick him into teams with a lot of frontline Fighters - enough melees that he'll be happy enough spreading his attacks around, none of which are building heavy defences. Give him a decent team comp to work against and some backup on the frontline and he'll be your quintessential Fighter - dealing enough damage to kill things while remaining tanky enough to eat a few hits without falling over.

There are two reasons to pick Aurelio in your comp. The first is as a safe blind pick (at least if Hass is banned out) - he may not excel, but he can perform just fine without support in most comps. The second, much more notable, reason is to lean hard on bot lane. Your one initiation is too expensive to play without a lot of targets, but between Inferno March and Flame Assault you've got enough mobility to cross the length of the map and slap those squishies in the head. Gank bot early and often, snowball Aurelio, be happy.

Note that while you can pick Mastery choices which make him into a passable damage sponge, it's really not worth it - Aurelio's mechanics scream 'damage', Flame stacks come in over time, and he has no other utility. Ask yourself: do you want a fairly tanky high damage bruiser, or do you want a not-actually-very-tanky tank?

Cards:
Move up to 2 hexes, then attack all enemies and monsters within 1 hex. Gain 1 SP for each target hit.

This card does a lot of heavy lifting for Aurelio, acting as a combination movement card, SP generation and light poke. Realistically though, its main use is as SP generation - anything you get out of it beyond that is a bonus. You'll usually want to target the hex you'll get the most mileage out of it therefore, ensuring there's at least three monsters in range so you'll refund your expenditure as a minimum - and if they're coming from the enemy jungle, all the better.

Gain 2 stacks of Flame, then search Flame Assault into your hand.

A very useful card, particularly with the Mastery choice to give you more Flame stacks. Going into a fight already stacked up is extremely valuable, and given that the card costs nothing you'd be a fool not to play it on cooldown.






Start a fight with an enemy hero within 2 hexes and all heroes within 1 hex of them. Duration is equal to number of participants.

An initiation card pretty much custom-built for ganking bot. The prohibitive cost makes playing it on any other lane unappealing - you'd be paying 8 SP for a vanilla Initiation card with extra range - but jumping over to bot for a nice five round beating is great. Even so, given the cost you're probably not going to play this without discounts or Inferno March.



Interactions:
Bart - Crit Immunity. Obviously anyone who relies on crit damage to kill things is going to struggle when faced with a frontline that can't be crit.

Hass - Buff stealing. Hass can steal Aurelio's Flame stacks as quickly as he can generate them, and since they last for the duration of the fight that means bad news for Aurelio.

Search effects - Blocker, Reinhardt. Despite only having two cards worth playing (Flame Assault generally isn't), being able to search for Aurelio's cards is surprisingly valuable. Inferno March can make for good SP generation if timed right, and you want as many Flame stacks going into a fight as you can get. Not the best target in the game, but by no means a bad one.

Felicity - New arrival Felicity doesn't have any in-fight synergy with Aurelio, but her cards are very much another matter. Return to Embrace easily stacks up 3+ enemies on a single tile, while Mirage Scales gets to be extremely expensive (counterbalanced by round count increasing with participants). Enter Aurelio: Inferno March can double down on the SP gain from Return to Embrace, while Flame Assault has all the duration of Mirage Scales but usually costs a lot less in these circumstances. You can't do it all that often, but when you can, it works amazingly.
v2.1 | Aurelio
Doesn't really get much from the new itemisation (though the crit stacking item is worth a look). Does have a very good Variant however which takes him from top tier to even higher.

Variant 1

Changed - Flame stacks give 20% 10% crit rate and 15% 25% crit damage.

This is very much an early game nerf, making your crits much less reliable so securing kills is a gamble. Late game however, once you've itemised some crit, this can let your Aurelio hit like an absolute truck. Overall something of a sidegrade.

Variant 2

Changed - Flame stacks give 20% 15% crit rate and 15% 10% crit damage.

Removed - Aurelio can only gain one stack from each enemy unit.

Variant 2, meanwhile, makes Aurelio absolutely disgusting in longer fights. His skirmishing takes a hit of course - Protagonist provides less power after all - but it's worth it to get continual Flame stacks over the course of a fight. If you happen to make it to Final Fight, sooner or later Aurelio is going to start one-shotting things, particularly because he no longer struggles if he gets stuck on a tank. If this Variant is in play you should strongly consider him in any comp (and ensure you pick or ban Hass).
v3.1 | Aurelio
v3.1 Updates: Tweaked entry a bit, and more importantly, fixed my previous analysis of Flame Assault. Not sure how none of the comments called me out on that one, because that was just stupid. Oh, added in the great Felicity synergy too.

Item build: Bruiser. You may want to sprinkle in some crit or crit damage, but you probably don't want to go full glass unless you've got tank(s) and they're getting early Presence. The exception is if you're on Variant 1 (Flame II giving lower crit chance but higher crit damage) - that Variant pushes you towards itemising crit so you get to throw the crazy 300% crit damage hits around more often.

Reserve Tactics: You'll want to pocket the standard Initiation card of your choice so you can still gank solo lanes when the situation calls for it; any of them work, but probably Feigned Attack works best since Meticulous Plan can be awkward with Inferno March SP gain and Surprise Assault will likely be deactivated by Flame Assault.

Funnelling: One of the better Bruisers to funnel, both for cards and stats. Innate crit while being a frontline bruiser lets him use pretty much any stats you can give him, and searching his cards lets him doublejump to bot lane freely. Still probably suboptimal since his teamfight performance is unreliable, but you could definitely do a lot worse.

Rejected gags:
I literally cannot play Protagonist without yelling "PWOOOOTAGONIIIIST". Damnit LittleKuriboh.

For an alleged Protagonist, Aurelio sure does look evil in the card art. Are... are we the baddies?
Bond
After being rescued from a lab which taught him to play card games[yugioh.fandom.com], this monkey took up the name Bond and attempted unsuccessfully to become a professional card game player. Two years later, having racked up substantial debts from gambling and an addiction to banana daquiris, he was eventually forced to make money in a less savoury way - by becoming an assassin.

Name: Bond

Position: Jungle / Bot

Role: ADC

Mastery choices:
Monkey Business costs 1 less / Add one copy of Monkey Business to the deck

Gain an additional 0.2 AP per 25 gold / If Monkey Do's attack misses, gain 2 additional SP

Itemisation: ADC

Synergies: Mihawk (%health)

Counters: None

Countered by: None

Summary: Generic ADC with initiation options and good damage output.

Analysis: Bond is an entirely generic ADC with only one real distinguishing feature - his attacks deal more damage the lower health his target is. For each 1% health the target is missing, Bond deals 1% more damage; while fairly unimaginitive, this does lead to Bond dealing quite surprisingly high damage in fights.

This bonus damage from missing health makes Bond particularly good at skirmishing, as it makes it far more likely that small, short fights will end in kills; as a result, Bond can perform well in the jungle (having decent cards for finding skirmishes as well as good stats for winning them). His cards are unimpressive in lane, so Jungle is generally his preferred role.

While Bond has a lot of damage potential, this is all focussed into a single attack rather than being split across several like, say, Elemi; this makes Bond relatively unreliable, especially when played at a skill deficit.

Due to being an ADC whose best position is jungle, you'll necessarily be creating a fairly squishy team if you run Bond. You'll therefore want to field him alongside relatively beefy solo laners - with two ADCs you shouldn't need to worry all that much about damage from your top or mid lane. Aside from this restriction Bond can be picked fairly flexibly, as he has no particular weaknesses or counters (besides being a squishy ADC, anyway).

Cards:
Bond moves up to 2 hexes, then searches Monkey Do into hand.

A simple movement card which can at least be made free via masteries (which you should do). Pretty much useless in lane since you should be, y'know in lane (and therefore in range to initiate) - this is primarily useful in the jungle for moving into position for a gank and searching your initiation card into hand. That said, it can find the occasional sneak kill on mid if you don't mind taking a bit of bot tower damage to get it.



Choose an enemy hero within 1 hex and attack them. If the attack hits, initiate a fight (1 hex participation range, 2 round duration); if it misses gain 3 SP. If this card results in a kill (either from the attack or the subsequent fight), it returns to your hand and Bond gets an extra 300 gold.

A very short duration initiation effect, but that shouldn't be too much of a problem - the main reason you'll be playing this is to secure quick kills on vulnerable targets which you can reach relatively easily through use of Monkey Business. The SP refund on miss serves to bail you out - either you hit your attack (giving you effectively an extra free round of damage) or you get some of your payment back. In extreme circumstances it can even give you extra SP (for example, if played via Acedia's Eureka). Meanwhile, the bonus gold from kills allows Bond to snowball very quickly if he can find the right spots.

Bond gains the Oo-oo-ee-ee buff which, as well as having a really stupid name, gives him 8% Field Hit and causes him to target the lowest percentage health enemy in fights. Lasts until the end of his next fight.

A really stupidly named buff for a rather overpriced card - the 8% field hit helps you to hit with Monkey Do, but that's about it. The main use is to ensure Bond is maximising the effect of his passive by targeting the lowest %health enemy, but bear in mind that this can work against you in some cases - he'll target a tank with 9500/10000 health rather than a carry with 2000/2100 health.

Interactions:
Nothing particularly noteworthy. Can have some synergy with Paisai due to extending the length of Monkey Do, and his passive works well to clean up after initial spike from One Slap Chaps.
v2.1 | Bond
No particularly big changes. ADCs didn't really get much in the way of good new itemisation.

Variant 1

Removed - Bond's hero feat is doubled for his first attack in each fight.

Gained - Whenever a unit dies in a fight Bond gains a stack of The Final Moment, increasing his damage by 10%. Stacks up to 5 times.

Generally a pretty big buff - the original effect was very much an afterthought intended to encourage short fights against injured enemies, but it didn't really make a lot of difference. This Variant gives Bond a nice pseudo-Kid effect, giving him enough damage to compete with the hypercarries in the late game. Note that it procs off friendly deaths as well as enemy ones, helping the clean-up effort - but remember that Hass suddenly becomes a counter.
v3.1 | Bond
v3.1 Updates: Cleaned up the entry to reflect my newfound realisation that Bond isn't actually that bad in the right comp.

Item build: ADC. No reason to get fancy with it, he's just an ADC at the end of the day.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing in particular - there's an argument for running a generic initiation to make up for Monkey Do's unreliability, but I wouldn't bother personally. If played in bot lane, Poke cards can be useful to get some initial chip damage in so your passive can do more work later.

Funnelling: Cards, not really. Stats, sure, Bond uses them as well as any other ADC.

Rejected gags:
After that obnoxious debate over whether Idris Elba should play James Bond, casting a monkey was the next logical choice.

Between the backpack and the weird particle effect... is Bond shooting acid? That's pretty messed up, even for a monkey.

Psst, Sam Fisher[splintercell.fandom.com] called and he wants his goggles back. And his franchise back, actually.
Gillis
Following the development of an unfortunate late-onset allergy to rubber, Gillis was forced to abandon her previous career[dungeonkeeper.fandom.com], superglue horns and a tail to herself and try to find work as a succubus.

Name: Gillis

Position: Jungle / Mid

Role: Assassin / Mage

Mastery choices:
Gain 6 additional Presence in the first round of fights / Charm increases both cost and duration by 2

Hypnosis also searches Enchanting Invitation / If Charm is used on an enemy hero, they're forced to attack Gillis in the first round of the next fight

Itemisation: Full damage

Synergies: Gold generation effects (e.g. Kid, BaJie)

Counters: Round 1 damage effects, especially when AoE (Felyn, Reinhardt, Hakuna)

Countered by: Acedia (entirely negates Gillis' kit), Hass (steals Accumulation stacks); true damage (e.g. Mihawk, Digo)

Summary: Strong alpha strike mage-assassin with expensive, but decent, cards.

Analysis: Gillis, like many heroes, is defined by her passive effects. On entering a fight, for the first round she is almost entirely immune to damage (99% damage reduction), and each time she's attacked (hit or miss) she gains a percentage of the attacker's AP as Accumulation stacks. In the second round she converts all her Accumulation stacks into AP for one attack. Between her naturally high AP, high gold generation and potential for substantial AP, this second round attack will usually do significant damage, in many cases one-shotting enemies.

Once past the second round Gillis becomes vanilla in fights; however, thanks to Charm's gold generation she'll usually have a lot of money and equipment, allowing her to continue putting out solid damage numbers. Alongside this, she also bears one of the stronger initiation cards of the game.

Thanks to the combination of screening for her team in round 1, massive alpha strike damage round 2, and some good cards, Gillis is a strong all-round pick who can provide some pseudo-tank for an otherwise squishy team. She becomes less impactful alongside actual tanks, whose higher Presence reduces her chances of taking attacks in round 1; the flip side is that once her initial effect wears off she'll need tanks around to keep her alive long enough to use her Charm/kill gold.

Cards:
Choose any hero (friend or foe) and move them 1 hex.

A versatile movement card, though very expensive for what it does. You'll usually want to use Hypnosis to set up for an Enchanting Invitation, either bringing in reinforcements or isolating enemies; to that end, the mastery choice to search it out is very useful. Only play this if it's necessary to secure kills, though, as it's very expensive otherwise. Note that the art for this card shows a bat; Gillis is clearly some kind of demon (presumably a succubus), which have no associations with bats, and there aren't any heroes in the game associated with bats either (unless you count Qube or maybe Babe's chest sigil). This implies Gillis just randomly hypnotises bats for fun.

Initiate a fight with all heroes within 2 hexes of Gillis with a 4 round duration. After the fight, all surviving participants move to Gillis' hex.

A solid initiation card, boasting both improved range and duration over the vanilla version. Its main drawback is being specifically centred on Gillis herself, which can lead to difficulties in isolating targets; Hypnosis is usually the best answer to these problems. The post-fight movement is also surprisingly helpful in the early game, as it helps to group your team up to protect them from counter-engages on your opponent's turn and encourages your team to recall to reset their health. Remember you can Hypnosis your own team as well as enemies.

Target a hero (friend or foe) to give them the Charm effect. While this effect lasts, any time the target gains gold, Gillis gains the same amount of gold.

Expensive, but can lead to massive gold gains to secure a substantial economic lead for your team (or more specifically, for Gillis). Given the cost, I strongly recommend you don't just play this whenever it enters your hand - 4 SP is simply too much for five turns of farming income. Instead, you should play this alongside other gold generation cards such as Kid's Amnesty, or immediately before an objective fight targeting whoever you think will get the most kills. You should generally avoid playing this on enemy heroes for this reason (you don't really want to manipulate them into getting more gold), although it can be a useful bail-out tool if you're losing fights.

Interactions:
Acedia - Important to note that Acedia hard counters Gillis in fights; putting Gillis to sleep entirely negates her round 1 damage soaking, which in turn also negates her round 2 burst.

True damage / targeted damage - A much softer counter is to draft heroes who you can either have specifically target other heroes (e.g. Nihil, Lubos) or, failing that, at least damage Gillis through her damage reduction (e.g. Digo). Neither of these entirely resolves the problem, of course, but they will at least help to mitigate it.

Gold generation - As noted above, any cards which generate gold can have their effects functionally doubled through use of Gillis' Charm. Most notable are Kid's Amnesty, BaJie's Cache and Acedia's Alarm Clock.
v2.1 | Gillis
Got a really nice new item in the Archmage Hat, which is generally a bit too pricey to be a universal pick but works nicely with Gillis' Charm-accelerated economy. Her Variants are hit-and-miss, but none are dealbreakers.

Variant 1

Changed - In the first round first two rounds Gillis gains 99% 40% damage reduction. When attacked gains 75% 40% of the attacker's AP as Accumulation stacks.

This Variant does make Gillis a fair bit weaker - she loses enough damage reduction to be potentially focussed down, and her mastery choices only cover her for the first round. The extra round of coverage can be useful if you're running a full squishy comp, though.

Variant 2

Removed - When attacked in the first round, Gillis gains 75% of the attacker's AP as Accumulation stacks, increasing her AP for her next hit.

Gained - When attacked in the first round, Gillis gains 35% of the attacker's AP as Enchantment stacks, increasing her AP for all attacks from round 2 onwards.

This one, on the other hand, is VERY strong. She loses the single huge hit, but instead gains almost half as much AP for the entire duration of a fight. Obviously this is good for late game objective fights, but really you'll see the benefit in any fight lasting 4 rounds or more. I wonder how long Enchanting Invasion lasts...
v3.1 | Gillis
v3.1 Updates: Fixed an embarassing error that had true damage in the 'counters' rather than the 'countered by' column. Sure is a good thing nobody actually reads this thing, or that might have been awkward. Otherwise tweaked things.

Item build: Usually Mage. If the right items are around you can create a strong tweaked Gillis build - Glorious Shield gives her a big Presence boost which will wear off after she takes hits, Golden Ticket will help keep her from dropping any lower, expensive things like Ultimate Iron Fist and Archmage Hat can be affordable for her - but she'll work just fine with a standard Mage loadout in the absence of those things.

Reserve Tactics: Teleporting for Support can give you a better Enchanting Invasion without having to pay the SP for Hypnosis; failing that, Quick Recall is always handy. If you don't have too expensive of a build, you can run things like Resource Sacrifice and then rely on Charm to make up the numbers. Clash, while generally underwhelming, can clean up after an Enchanting Invasion since everyone moves to your hex and you'll be all but immune for the duration.

Funnelling: Generally no. Her cards are too expensive to want to play frequently, and she gets plenty of gold to bolster her statline. Could do worse, but usually can do better.

Rejected gags:
Okay, sure, she's a murderous demon with a penchant for bat abuse. You can't deny though, she's got some great colour coordination.

Look at her hips on Charm's artwork. How the hell does she even get into those clothes, let alone out of them?
Hakuna
I smack with tree. Gun? No! No sword, no spear, no gun. SMACK WITH TREE! - Hakuna

Name: Hakuna

Position: Top / Jungle

Role: Tank

Mastery choices:
Furious Charge distance increases by 1 / Furious Charge damage increases by 10% of the target's max health

Itemisation: Tank

Synergies: Reinhardt (big first attack)

Counters: None

Countered by: None

Summary: Fairly generic tank with a very good initiation.

Analysis: Hakuna matata is a wonderful phrase ...Let me start again.
Hakuna is a generic tank whose only unique attribute in a fight comes with his first attack. When Hakuna makes his first attack of a fight, you can choose the target; that attack then deals an additional 16/20% of the target's max health (pre-mitigation) damage, with 50/60% of that amount being dealt to all other enemies.

While this hit is fairly hefty, Hakuna otherwise being a tank means it's not going to be able to really burst down any targets; instead its best usage is simply to take a chunk out of a tank's health. This approach deals the most damage possible, both to the target and to their teammates. Unfortunately, after this point Hakuna becomes an entirely vanilla tank - he doesn't even get the bonus Presence several other tanks get to help do their jobs better.

Hakuna's main role outside of 'generic tank' is initiation with a view to tower pushing. He has access to arguably the best initiation card in the game for starting big teamfights; alongside this, his other cards provide bonus damage to towers as well as some decent chip damage to heroes.

While this initiation power has some value from the jungle, the rest of Hakuna's kit is simply too weak to recommend. I therefore consider him to slot into a fairly narrow niche - he's a decent pick in the jungle if you have a very teamfight-centric comp. Otherwise, pick someone better.

Cards:
Choose an enemy tower and deal 2 damage to it. Removed when played.

Doesn't exist in Hakuna's deck as standard, and is instead generated by kills from Dominant Onslaught; that's good, because it would be a pretty inefficient draw. As it is, it's free tower damage.






Start a fight involving all heroes within 3 hexes of Hakuna, 5 round duration. For each enemy hero killed, generate one Plunder card in hand.

Fantastic teamfight initiation, you can usually start a 3v3 or 4v4 without any real difficulty. The five round duration means you're likely to be able to secure kills without too much trouble as well, and doing so will generate bonus tower damage via Plunder. The main downside is that the range is so long that you can struggle to find a numbers advantage, so if you fall behind to the point that you can't win teamfights it becomes useless.


Target an enemy hero within 1 hex of Hakuna and move both him and the target 2 hexes in a chosen direction. On arrival, attack all enemy heroes and towers within 1 hex. Heroes take 10% of their max health as additional damage, while turrets take 1 damage.

Rather awkward to use due to the range of the movement, but is probably your best bet for lining up a good Dominant Onslaught. The tower damage is very low, so avoid using it for that purpose - if you want tower damage you're better off setting up a good initiation to generate Plunders. Bear in mind you can't play this if the movement would take you off the map - it doesn't just stop when you hit a wall.

Interactions:
Nothing particularly major; has some minor synergy with Reinhardt due to his round 1 armour shred allowing for maximising Hakuna's special attack damage, and generally slots nicely into an Alpha Strike comp.
v2.1 | Hakuna
No particularly big changes; his Variants just shift things around a bit without really increasing or decreasing overall power.

Variant 1

Changed - Special attack deals bonus damage equal to 16% 26% of the target's hp and deals half one quarter damage to all other enemy units.

Hit the one target harder and the others a little weaker. Works out to an overall buff - the team-wide damage goes from AP + 8% target hp to AP + 6.5% target hp, which isn't too much of a loss, while the target gets chunked significantly harder. This is most noticeable in skirmishes, where Hakuna becomes much more effective at securing kills. On the other hand, he's not really the kind of hero you draft for a skirmish game.

Variant 2

Changed - Special attack deals bonus damage equal to 16% of the target's hp and deals half one quarter damage to all other enemy units.

Gained - Special attack ignores armour.

Honestly this barely makes a difference. It does push you towards targeting tanks, but you were usually going to do that anyway, so who really cares?
v3.1 | Hakuna
v3.1 Updates: A few minor tweaks, nothing notable. Does have some better team synergy now Chen has arrived and brought his boat.

Item build: One Slap Chap. Hakuna is basically the definition of the archetype - so you might want an item built to work off his single hit, but aside from that he's a tank through and through.

Reserve Tactics: A reasonably cheap movement card - Skillful Roaming, Teleporting for Support - can be useful to set up a lopsided fight given the radius of his initiation. Alternatively, tower-pushing cards can help to capitalise on a good fight win alongside Plunder.

Funnelling: No. His cards are only really there for initiation, and that's all he's good for too. Even if you want to funnel a tank, pick one that actually uses the stats.

Rejected gags:
This man skinned a bear and didn't even bother to wipe the snot from its nose before putting it on. You have to assume he didn't clean it either. He's fighting with bear brains slowly trickling down his forehead.
Kaka
Who's a good boy then? Who's a good boy? Is it you? Yes, it's you. You're a good b- HEY! STOP EATING MY SP! BAD DOG!

Name: Kaka

Position: Jungle / Mid

Role: Mage

Mastery choices:
When Stone Curse has at least 2 tokens, Stone Hound gains 30 armour / When Stone Curse has at least 2 tokens it reduces SP by 1 instead of 2

Lurk movement range increases by 1 / Lurk cost reduces by 1

Stone Curse provides an extra 20 AP and 60 x Kaka's level max health / Stone Curse provides an extra 40 AP and 25 x Kaka's level max health

Itemisation: Mage

Synergies: Search/discard effects

Counters: None

Countered by: None

Summary: Very weak mage with an expensive pet.

Analysis: Kaka is... well, unfortunately Kaka is kinda caca.

The principle behind him isn't terrible. Kaka has a pet/summon called Stone Hound which can be moved independently of him, which shreds armour on entering a fight, and which can have its stats buffed over the course of a game. Unfortunately the implementation is absolutely terrible; unlike his counterpart Wild Heart, Kaka will drop dead if Stone Hound dies even if he's on the other side of the battlefield, and Stone Hound has no offensive scaling besides that which is given to him by card effect.

What's worse is that instead of being a card you can play, for some inexplicable reason Stone Curse cannot be played and instead takes effect when it enters your hand, reducing your SP at the same time. This can completely ruin your carefully laid plans to line up your SP with the round an objective fight starts, which in turn can basically throw entire games. You can at least cheat the system by searching Curse into your hand at 0 SP, which will give you the token for "free".

Kaka's other cards are nothing to write home about either, essentially consisting of moving the Stone Hound around. Lacking any other passive effects, Kaka himself is purely vanilla with mage itemisation. The Stone Hound, on the other hand, is not very effective at dealing damage (due to having no innate scaling along with no crit or itemisation), but can do an okay job of soaking damage (until he dies and takes Kaka with him, of course).

Overall, Kaka brings nothing much to the table. He's a vanilla mage with a mediocre blocker who kills him as often as he saves him, has weak (and numerous) cards, and can completely wreck your strategies. Avoid at all costs.

Cards:
Target a monster or enemy hero within 2 hexes, move Stone Hound to that hex. It then attacks all enemies and monsters within 1 hex, always hitting heroes. After being played, is replaced with Callback, a 0 cost card which returns Stone Hound to Kaka and becomes Blood Scent again.

The closest thing Kaka gets to a decent card, it can provide some harass and counter-jungling power at the expense of 2 SP and splitting the two of them up. While, like Lurk, this can allow Kaka more coverage, it also makes it more likely that you'll be fighting with half a hero but all of the risk. Still, it's about the best you've got so you may as well play it.

Move Stone Hound 1 hex, then search Wild Hunt into your hand.

Very meh. Even for 0 cost via masteries, it's an extremely low impact card which clogs up your deck. Its uses are to leave the Stone Hound by a lane to help protect it while Kaka farms (which brings the attendant risk of death for Kaka), and as a cheap way to move for a Wild Hunt setup.





When this card enters your hand, lose 2 SP and gain a token. For each token, Stone Hound gains 80 AP and 300 max health. If discarded during a Deployment Phase, it returns to the deck.

The signature card of Kaka's deck, it bears the baffling design of functionally being worse than automatically played. Not only does it chew up your SP when you draw it, which can ruin your plans entirely, it doesn't even leave your hand when it does so, making it incredibly hard to spam without access to one of the very few discard effects in the game. Regarding the armour mastery, which has unclear wording - it only adds 30 armour once, when the card reaches 2 tokens, rather than changing Stone Curse to also give 30 armour. Also note that although there is an achievement for getting Stone Hound to 'max size' (i.e. 5 tokens), this only refers to the size of the model; stats will continue to grow even after that point.

Choose an enemy hero within 2 hexes of Stone Hound; Stone Hound moves to them, then initiates a standard 3 round 1 hex fight.

Good range and relatively cheap, but you're paying for those benefits by only getting half a hero out of Kaka unless you happen to be attacking someone very close to him. Unless you're packing other movement effects or your target has been poked down pretty severely, this will not secure kills easily.




Interactions:
Search-and-discard - About the only thing Kaka has going for him is Stone Hound, so if you've insisted on drafting him for some inexplicable reason, you're going to need search effects to find Stone Curse so that he isn't dying instantly in every fight; searching it out also means it'll be in your hand rather than your deck, so you're not going to get screwed out of SP at an inopportune time. If you really want to double down (and again, I don't recommend doing so), draft a discard effect as well, so you can get Stone Curse out of hand to then find it again. Paisai is notable for having both a discard and a search effect.
v2.1 | Kaka
Sweet, huge update, hero reworks, surely they'll make Kaka playable right? Oh... oh wait, no. Just one Variant which barely changes anything and a new hero who absolutely dumpsters him. Poor dude.

Variant 1

Removed - Stone Hound shreds 10 armour from all enemies at the start of a fight.

Gained - Stone Hound shreds 15 armour per attack, applied before the attack lands.

Really makes barely any difference. In theory should help with Kaka's intended playstyle of map-wide skirmishing since it makes picking off individual targets easier, but it doesn't do anything to resolve his deal-breaking problems.
v3.1 | Kaka
v3.1 Updates: Absolutely no changes, Kaka was garbage before and is garbage now.

Item build: Mage. A GA effect (Phoenix Feather or Dissonance) will stop him from imploding if the Stone Hound is killed (provided he's in the fight), but really you're expending half the item's budget on half-heartedly duct taping over the gaping crack in Kaka's hero design.

Reserve Tactics: Rethink will let you discard Stone Curse, as will Perfect Tempo. Assuming you're okay with burning a Reserve Tactic on the single worst hero in the game, that is.

Funnelling: If you're really desperate to make Kaka work, funnelling is about the only way to do it. Don't bother with bonus stats - he gets absolutely no scaling beyond the vanilla mage - but drafting discards, searches, and tailoring your Tactics cards to thin your deck out is your best bet. You'll wind up with a comp that looks something like:
Frank [only two cards and you need a frontline]
Kaka
Xiangxi Ke [Discard effects]
Omaha [Only two cards and you may as well swarm the field since you're banning Foso anyway]
Paisai [Discard and seach] or failing that Qin Hu [Discard and unreliable search, limited by charges]

It still won't be good, but at least you'll have a comp that has frontline, decent damage and a good setup for buffing up the Hound so Kaka isn't instakilled every fight.

Rejected gags:
Stound Hound is a stupid name, it's more of a descriptor. I think I'll instead name it... Titi, after lake Titicaca.

Don't worry Titi. Maybe in DLC 3 they'll actually remember to make me playable.
Kamaitachi
I am the master of the blade. I strike swiftly and with a suddenness which- what? A sword? Of course not. Swords are for pansies[en.wikipedia.org]. - Kamaitachi

Name: Kamaitachi

Position: Jungle / Mid

Role: Fighter

Mastery choices:
Immediately gain two stacks of his passive on entering a fight / Hayate draws an additional card



Gain an additional 3.5 AP and 17.5 max health per level / Gain an additional 1.5 AP and 38.5 max health per level

When Meisou discards at least 5 cards, draw 2 additional cards / When Meisou discards at least 3 cards, draw 1 additional card

Itemisation: Fighter/Multi-Hitter

Synergies: Anything with bonus attacks

Counters: Anything with bonus attacks

Countered by: Anything which punishes bonus attacks, notably Felicity, Crank, and to a lesser extent Merisi

Summary: Multi-attacking Fighter who can put out chunky damage in fights.

Analysis: Kamaitachi is a versatile and high-damage Fighter who can fit into virtually any team comp by virtue of having only one string to his bow - he attacks, and he attacks often. On the field, every time 5 cards enter your discard pile he takes a swing at an enemy within 1 hex; in fights, he attacks once for every 5 actions taken by any hero, friend or foe (though for only 75% damage). Note that while I class him as a Fighter, the game considers him an Assassin (despite him having no tools to actually assassinate anything), giving him higher AP growth and lower health growth than others fitting the Fighter archetype.

This effect leaves Kamaitachi in the position of being useful in almost any team simply because of his damage output. In a big 5v5 teamfight he's guaranteed to get two free swings off at a minimum, along with his own, giving him a total of 250% AP damage per round (for context, Bunu Shan does 240% per round, albeit with a lot more AP). This gives him fantastic scaling with both AP and crit. On the field, meanwhile, he attacks based on cards entering your discard - so if he's in position he'll be taking swings even if you don't play any of his cards.

The only real weakness Kamaitachi has is that self-same scaling. As a Fighter reliant on attacks to be relevant, shutting him down with ganks, counterjungling etc. has a higher effect on him than it does other heroes; a crippled Kamaitachi can't put out any damage worth talking about, nor can he take more than a couple of blows before falling. Given that this is a weakness shared by pretty much all Fighters, it's telling that it's only worth pointing out for Kamaitachi - you expect so much more from him. It's also worth bearing in mind that he has no innate Initiation tools, so if you're playing him from the jungle you'll probably want to draft another initiator.

One final benefit to note about Kamaitachi is his discard-oriented cards. Usually these won't be all that relevant, but if you find yourself playing with heroes that like discard effects (Xiangxi Ke, Kaka) or heroes with bad cards (Big Foot) you get some extra benefit in separating the chaff from your hand.

Cards:
Discard all cards to the left of Meisou when played, then draw an equal number of cards. Starts with 3 tokens and loses one when played; removed when no tokens remain.

Meisou is used for the dual purposes of resetting your hand if you don't like your cards, and for triggering Kamaitachi's passive to get a free swing off or two. Generally its efficacy is dependent on your draft - the more heroes you have with bad cards, the more you'll want to use this. If you drafted several heroes with bad cards, therefore, you'll want to be a little more wary of using Meisou for the damage - unlike a lot of token-based cards, there's no way to refill tokens once they're spent, so you'll want to be careful of wasting them.

Choose an enemy hero (globally) and attack them, then discard two cards. If you trigger your passive from this effect, attack again (for a total of three attacks).

Probably Kamaitachi's weakest card, simply because all it provides is attacks. It's important to bear in mind that unlike his other two cards, Jin doesn't draw - make sure you're happy to discard your two rightmost cards when you play it. Note also that (in English at least) the description is wrong - it states 'return to original hex at the end of the round', which should in fact be on Hayate's description since Jin doesn't involve movement at all.

Move to an enemy hero's hex, then attack all enemies within 1 hex. Then discard two cards and draw two cards. Return to original hex at the end of the round.

A much more playable card than Jin thanks to drawing cards to replace the discarded ones, as well as moving to a target's hex. You'll often want to play this early to ensure Kamaitachi is in position to use his passive attacks as you play cards, even if you're not intending to make a play with him.



Interactions:
Fuggen everything - Since combat in this game is very simplified and pretty much entirely based on attacks and buffs/debuffs, it's inevitable that a lot of heroes will have effects which either provide additional attacks or effects which trigger on attack. There are, therefore, a lot of heroes who interact with Kamaitachi, depending on which team they're on. About the closest you get to a counter, though, is Crank - if he can apply his debuff to Kamaitachi early, he'll start eating damage multiple times per round.

Felicity - Move over Crank, Felicity is here to really screw over the multi-attackers. Unlike Crank there's no random targeting to worry about, and every instance of damage is going to stack that passive up. Do not take Kamaitachi into Felicity, ever.
v2.1 | Kamaitachi
In keeping with the general theme of 'the rich get richer', Kamaitachi is a big winner of the update. Not only did he get some nice new itemisation in Acceleration Coil and Helium Canister, but both his variants are good. Strong before, stronger after.

Variant 1

Changed - On the field Kamaitachi attacks an enemy within 1 hex for every 5 6 of your cards entering the discard pile.

Changed - In fights, after every 5 6 actions Kamaitachi gets a bonus attack dealing 75% 120% damage.

A sizeable improvement in fights - you're going from 15% damage per action to 20%. For best results itemise heavy AP instead of on-hit items. You do lose a little bit of field power, but not much overall (you'll usually see 1-2 procs per deployment phase either way). Jungle Kamaitachi remains the superior model.

Variant 2

Changed - On the field Kamaitachi attacks an enemy within 1 hex for every 5 4 of your cards entering the discard pile.

Changed - In fights, after every 5 4 actions Kamaitachi gets a bonus attack dealing 75% 55% damage.

By contrast, a small nerf in fights (going from 15% damage per action to 13.75%) in exchange for a sizeable jump in field power. You can potentially play around this heavily on the field for some nasty out-of-fight murder builds; either way, though, this makes Kamaitachi incredible as a partner for Bunu Shan. If you're able to build on-hit equipment (especially Acceleration Coil) you can actually wind up gaining damage in fights, too. Mid lane Kamaitachi steals the crown due to usually being in position to smack something.
v3.1 | Kamaitachi
v3.1 Updates: Some tweaks to note the Assassin stat growth and herald Felicity's arrival to finally give him a counter.

Item build: Multi-hitter. Probably the iconic multi-hitter for the game, you want anything that triggers off attacks on Kamaitachi, pronto. Acceleration Coil and Ghost Claw are the premium picks.

Reserve Tactics: Grab an Initiation card (any of them) since he has none of his own, at least assuming you're taking him in jungle. Perfect Tempo can let him get a parting shot off even in lane, though Rethink should probably be avoided since it's overlapping with Meisou.

Funnelling: Not so much on his cards, but definitely throw stats his way. Lots of attacks means lots of opportunities to make gifted AP matter, and being melee (with Assassin health gain) means bonus health can keep him alive under fire.

Rejected gags:
For a long time I'd assumed his hat was just designed that way because it was the closest they could get to a conical hat[en.wikipedia.org], but his portrait doesn't match up. I think he might just be wearing a wicker basket on his head.
Lubos
Despite the name, there were always four musketeers rather than three. Unfortunately, the other three didn't like Lubos very much, forcing him to find alternative employment.

Name: Lubos

Position: Jungle

Role: Assassin / Fighter

Mastery choices: None

Itemisation: Assassin / Fighter

Synergies: Targeted attacks (Xiangxi Ke, Nihil, Leon)

Counters: None

Countered by: Anna

Summary: Unimpressive alpha strike Assassin/Fighter.

Analysis: Lubos is an extremely underwhelming melee who can be built as either an Assassin or Fighter. His entire kit is invested in a single ability - when entering a fight, he replaces his first attack (doesn't get a standard attack in the first round, unlike Reinhardt) with a targeted strike which deals (with masteries) 160% normal damage, ignores 30 armour, and shreds 25 armour from the target.

This single attack is very strong in and of itself, primarily because the armour shred lasts for the duration of the entire fight; unfortunately, it's literally everything Lubos brings to the table. He has no other effects, so once the first round has passed he's purely vanilla. This means that while the game tags him as an Assassin, he's actually better off being built as a Fighter unless you're basing your strategy around lots of small skirmishes - in larger engagements, you're better off building him to soak a few hits rather than trying to build entirely around a single attack.

Lubos' only other claim to fame is having the only example in the entire game of an initiation card with no round limit on it. These tools aren't enough to make him worth picking, unfortunately (it's of limited use starting a fight with no round limit when it's a fight you're unlikely to win from a level playing field), so Lubos should generally be avoided.

Lubos has, at least, gained a solid synergistic pick in DLC 2 hero Leon. Both are able to target a specific enemy hero in fights; Leon's weakness is his low damage output, while Lubos' is that he hits reasonably hard, but only once before losing his targeting. The two working together are able to single out and kill a specific squishy target quickly, at least so long as Brand stacks match up, and while this isn't enough to make Lubos a good pick it does at least create niche comp potential.

Cards:
Target an ally. For six rounds, if the targeted ally fights, Lubos will fight whether he's in range or not. Doesn't apply to special teamfights.

Really not a good card. It is at least global, but that's really not enough to justify dropping 2 SP ensuring one of the weaker heroes in the game participates in a fight; 2 SP is much, if not all, of your pre-initiation budget. You can also use this pre-emptively to head off a gank you can see coming, but even then this is still pretty meh.



Initiate a fight with an enemy within 1 hex and all other heroes within 1 hex. Lasts until Lubos or his target dies.

Unique, as the only initiation card in the game (besides objective-based initiation cards) with no round limitation. Other than that it's pretty generic as a one hex, 6 SP initiation; the guarantee of a kill happening at some point is nice, but has a nasty tendency to mean missed kills when your target dies prematurely.



Interactions:
Targeted attacks - Thanks to his special attack striking whatever you tell it to, you can sometimes deal enough damage to make a specific enemy hero the lowest health target. This lets you pick a specific target for heroes like Nihil and Xiangxi Ke to go after - and the armour shred will help them finish the job. New arrival Leon is perhaps the best choice for this, though you'll need to be careful to send Lubos after whoever has the most Brand stacks.

Lady Deadfire - Notable for giving up to 3x damage from a single attack; the combination of Lubos and Lady Deadfire can instakill a squishy target before the fight really starts. This is probably the only reason to build Lubos as an assassin rather than a Fighter.
v2.1 | Lubos
Itemisation really didn't help Lubos at all, but his Variants are both potential upgrades in the right comp. The update wasn't enough to push him higher on the tier list (sorry to the commenters who insist he's good), but it does open up more comps where he can actually be useful.

Variant 1

Removed - Lubos' special attack deals 135% damage and removes 15 armour.

Gained - Lubos' special attack always crits.

Depending on itemisation this can often wind up being a substantial nerf - base crit damage is only 150%, and the armour shred is useful for follow-up. If your current version has some nice crit damage boosting gear, though, you can build Lubos up to be a nasty instakill assassin, especially if you can lean on a lane to keep one target weak. Very snowbally.

Variant 2

Changed - Lubos' special attack deals 135% 75% damage and removes 15 25 armour.

Generally a buff as well, despite the sizeable damage reduction - under normal circumstances Lubos isn't going to be one-shotting anything and so will always be relying on follow-up from other heroes. Shredding an extra 10 armour will usually make up the damage difference inside 1-2 attacks, so you're much more likely to see that targeted enemy fall over by the end of the fight. Also helps Lubos win Duels against health-stacking enemies like Frank.
v3.1 | Lubos
v3.1 Updates: Some slight tweaks as a result of Leon showing up. There's definitely comp potential for Lubos now (at least, ones that don't involve drafting a full team of squishies), but he's still not a good general purpose pick, nor those specific comps good enough to pull him out of trash tier.

You'd think Anna would be great for Lubos, especially since what little lore the devs give indicate the two of them are linked - but for some reason they decided to make Anna's passive go off after Lubos'. He also has a nasty tendency towards Lan syndrome, where he shows up and does 80% of the damage but a teammate picks up the kill, so getting Rosemary on him is a real pain.

Item build: Bruiser / Assassin. You'll only want to build him Assassin under specific circumstances, those being when version/itemisation strongly encourages it or when you've got a comp built around exploding one target immediately. Otherwise just take your first turn armour shred and make the best of it.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing much. Maybe a Probe Attack to help spam quick, efficient Duels, or a Watch This since Duel should generally give you a kill unless something goes horribly wrong.

Funnelling: No. Only two cards, one of which is barely worth playing. Pouring stats into a one pump chump isn't efficient in the slightest.

Rejected gags:
People seem to think I'm biased against Lubos - I see more comments complaining about my treatment of him than anyone else. I can assure you, I don't hate him just because he looks French. I also hate him because of his smug smirk, his underperformance in virtually every game I've played him in, and how weirdly flat his hat is.
Manta
Fish fish fish! - Fizz[leagueoflegends.fandom.com] Manta

Name: Manta

Position: Jungle / Mid

Role: Assassin / Fighter

Mastery choices:
Undercurrent gains tokens while in hand / Undercurrent grants an additional 2% AP per token

Wave Assault grants an additional token to Undercurrent for each attack made / Wave Assault's range is increased by 1

Trident of Radiance gains 1 range and can crit / Gain 10% crit chance

Itemisation: Fighter or Assassin; Assassin generally synergizes better with his kit.

Synergies: Dylan (crit boost)

Counters: Bart (crit immunity bypass), armour-heavy tanks (true damage)

Countered by: None

Summary: True damage critting melee who primarily hunts isolated tanks.

Analysis: Manta rejoices in the unique effect that makes his crits deal true damage, bypassing all damage reduction effects and even ignoring immunity to crits (Bart cowers in fear). He also gains 25% crit rate innately, with another 10% from masteries and increased by another 25% if there's only one enemy hero in the fight.

All of this puts Manta in a slightly awkward position, itemisation-wise. He wants to primarily be hunting isolated targets (as Undercurrent can't work unless the target is isolated and he gains the crit bonus) and wants to build at least a decent amount of crit, which pushes him towards the Assassin route; meanwhile, the fact that his crits inflict true damage makes him want to be hitting tanks, which inclines him to more of a Fighter build.

The general use-case for Manta is to take him mid into a squishy mid-laner you want to lean on to weaken for teamfights; he's a great pick into something like a Cubey or Dylan mid lane to keep them out of the way and their cards out of hand. He can also play into lane bullies like Qube and Justice since his isolation crit gives him a major leg-up in the 1v1.

You can take Manta in the jungle too, but this is more of a niche situation because he struggles with bot lane ganks (which are a jungler's bread-and-butter). In this case he's more suited for leaning into top lane ganks, using his crit boost to bring down bruisers and tanks in the 2v1. It's unusual that you'll have a top laner that needs shutting down like this, but if the AI decides to draft a top lane Cubey or swaps Felyn up there into a tank it may be necessary.

Cards:
While not in your hand, gains 1 token per round. When played, targets an enemy within 2 hexes that has no nearby allies and starts a fight, during which Manta gains 4% bonus AP for each token.

Very much an assassination initiation rather than a normal one due to the single target restriction; this makes for quite an awkward-to-use card since frequently your desired target won't be available through simple pathing. What's more, the token system it uses ensures that you won't get as much benefit from spamming it, reducing its potential even more. Its main purpose is to give you a cheap way of starting a 1v1 in lane, along with the bonus AP to win it.

Choose a direction and attack all monsters, enemy heroes and towers in that direction, dealing 2 damage to towers and causing pushback on heroes struck.

Very much designed for laning, you need the stars to align nicely for you to get a good line-up from the jungle (or to manipulate your SP by taking short turns, at any rate). From the jungle this is best used for counterjungling; if Manta's ganking is going to be restricted by Undercurrent's awkwardness, you may as well hold back the enemy jungler to stop them scaling as well. Note that if your Manta happens to push under the mid tower you can double dip, which is nice.

Target an enemy hero within 2 hexes. Manta and any allies within 1 hex of the target attack it.

Expensive for what it does, which is generally get a maximum of 3 attacks off (and frequently less than that). Once again an awkward card, you'll usually want to play this in bot lane to get your money's worth, but bot lane is the lane Manta usually can't gank. The main use for this, rather than the attacks themselves, is to stack more tokens on Undercurrent (via masteries) to allow for a more effective solo kill, and it's absurdly expensive for that purpose when the entire point of Undercurrent is to be cheap.

Interactions:
Dylan - While very few heroes have any particular synergy with Manta, Dylan's unique ability to grant crit chance and damage to an ally via Strengthening Potion can help tremendously to give Manta reliability.

Bart - What beats crit immunity? Crit immunity immunity!

Anna - Cheap, brutal 1v1 kills are Manta's byword, and Anna is a great support for aiding skirmishes. Her free armour will make sure you come out on top of your early 1v1s, and the bonus AP from Rosemary will then help secure later ones - to the point of being able to use Mandala Flower as a bootleg Undercurrent. Alternatively, Mandala Flower also lets a jungle Manta grab a gank in bot lane without having to draft in Reserve Tactics.
v2.1 | Manta
No particular benefit from the new itemisation - even less so than others, in fact, since several of them provide armour penetration which Manta doesn't care about at all. His Variants are a little weird, but generally strengthen him slightly.

Variant 1

Removed - Manta gains 25% crit chance when only one enemy unit remains.

Gained - Manta gains 10% crit chance on killing an enemy hero, to a maximum of 30%.

This Variant makes Manta much stronger - that bonus crit is permanent and goes a long way towards helping him attain his goal of 100% crit. It is of course dependent on Manta getting the kills, which can be awkward when teammates finish off wounded enemies... but fortunately you have an initiation card specifically designed for 1v1s against isolated enemies. Moves Manta up the tier list by almost a full tier since he can now treat teamfights like 1v1s and act like a scarier Aurelio in general.

Variant 2

Removed - Manta gains 25% crit chance when only one enemy unit remains.

Changed - Manta has 25% 50% increased crit chance.

Gained - After each attack Manta loses 15% crit chance for the rest of the fight, stacking up to three times.

A major downgrade. Hypothetically makes Manta better at early game ganking from the jungle, but in practice means he gets a tiny bit better at the bot lane ganks he's not designed for and much worse at the 1v1 kills he's supposed to be getting. Don't pick Manta with this Variant active.
v3.1 | Manta
v3.1 Updates: Reworked his entry to reflect my new view that mid Manta is the way forward. Also tweaked his Variant entries to note that Variant 1 is A tier bordering on S, while Variant 2 is Lubos-tier (i.e. 'can sometimes get a few nice kills to trick you into thinking he's not garbage').

Item build: Assassin. You want to be bringing Manta to murder mid lane over and over (I now realise), so you want to itemise for that. Build exactly enough crit to get to 100% on isolated targets (so 40% or 50% depending on mastery level) then AP after that. Remember his crits deal true damage, so armour pen is pointless.

Reserve Tactics: If you're going with a jungle Manta, bring an Initiation card so you can gank bot (he's bad at it, but sometimes all you need is a warm wet slimy body). For mid Manta, while nothing is necessary, Watch This with a good lane matchup can basically just give you a free kill off Undercurrent.

Funnelling: Probably not. Undercurrent is designed to deter you from playing it too often, and the rest of his cards are kinda garbage. Meanwhile, weakened performance in teamfights makes stat investment less efficient, though you may rethink this if Variant 1 is in effect.

Rejected gags:
The styling on that headband makes me think he doesn't actually have an angler fish style light naturally and it's just the underwater equivalent of a miner's helmet.
Mo
Mo' bounties, mo' problems - Mo

Name: Mo

Position: Jungle

Role: Fighter / Assassin

Mastery choices: None

Itemisation: Fighter

Synergies: Kid (bounty generation)

Counters: Charon, Enidi (bounty generation)

Countered by: None

Summary: Very meta-dependent Fighter who can become incredibly powerful with the right ruleset.

Analysis: Mo is entirely defined by bounties. At the start of the game he adds 50 bounty to every enemy hero, an effect which is repeated after each dragon fight. Additionally, whenever Mo claims bounty gold he increases his AP by 50% of that amount; he also gains 33% of the bounty gold if he assists in a bounty kill but doesn't secure the kill himself.

In a vacuum, this leaves Mo to fill a fairly unimpressive Fighter role; he'll usually get a modest sum of AP from his generated bounties (depending on how many dragon fights are in the current ruleset), but no more than that. On the other hand, paired with or against heroes which generate additional bounties, he can get some very substantial amounts of AP under his belt. If you happen to be in a meta with the ruleset 'heroes gain 5 bounty per round', Mo suddenly becomes pick-or-ban material.

While the game characterises him as an Assassin (with an Assassin's stat growth), Mo is much better built as a Fighter; if you're picking him, it's probably into an environment where he can stack up substantial bounty gold, giving him both a gold lead and substantial bonus AP. Given he has no way to specifically target an enemy, he's better off getting the survivability to keep taking chunky swings than investing further into damage which may well be wasted. This is in spite of having an additional passive effect to allow him to take a free always-hitting attack at an enemy ranged hero that attacks him once per fight.

To conclude, Mo will underperform unless picked into the right team and the right meta; under good circumstances, however, he can and will take over games.

Cards:
Target an enemy hero within 2 hexes; move to their hex and then attack them. If it hits, gain half the target's bounty.

Pretty much just used to claim bounties; without that effect this is a very overpriced card. Unfortunately weakened by needing to hit in order to function; this means that if you're picking a specific hero to give bounties to, you should target ones who are easier to hit.




Target an enemy hero within 2/3 hexes; fight (standard duration 3 range 1). During the fight, all enemy heroes with bounties take 30% increased damage.

Solid initiation card, bearing the normal cost but with very good range and a chunky 30% damage increase debuff. Thanks to Mo's innate granted bounties this should usually apply to every participating enemy unless you're camping a lane; you'll usually want to avoid doing so regardless because Mo wants to wander around hoovering up bounties.



Until the end of this round, Mo participates in all fights.

Unique in that this card has no restrictions, meaning that it applies to objective fights, unlike every other example of this effect. This is of limited relevance, however, due to the single round duration and the fact that Mo is restricted to the jungle role, which participates in the vast majority of objective fights anyway. It is, at least, very cheap (free with masteries and enough bounties), and due to lasting for one round rather than the Deployment Phase can be used to head off enemy ganks if you're on blue side.

Interactions:
Bounty generation - As has been stated (okay, beaten into the ground) above, all bounty generation works nicely for Mo. Kid's Conviction is the most readily applicable, but both Charon and Enidi have cards which apply bounties to friendly heroes (making Mo a mild counter to them).
v2.1 | Mo
The update winds up giving Mo a lot of very small benefits - some marginally better Variants and a nice expensive beatstick item to synergise with his bonus bounty claims. Not enough to shift him up the tier list, though.

Variant 1

Changed - At the beginning of the game and every time Dragon respawns enemy heroes gain 50 100 bounty.

Gained - In fights, Mo's bonus attack against ranged enemies removes 10 armour.

Works out to being a general buff. While you no longer get extra bounties over the course of the game, the extra 50 from round 1 makes Mo much more effective at snowballing which can easily make up for it if he claims even one of them in full. The armour reduction, meanwhile, is fairly low impact but hey - free shred is free shred.

Variant 2

Removed - At the beginning of the game and every time Dragon respawns enemy heroes gain 50 bounty.

Gained - Enemy heroes always have at least 50 bounty.

This meanwhile is a buff so long as Mo is claiming bounties at any reasonable rate - you're not having to wait on Dragons, nor roam around to different lanes. No more awkward moments when your laners kill their opponents without Mo's involvement, either. You can even camp a lane and still claim bounties! Overall makes Mo much more flexible in his approach, which is a sizeable benefit.
v3.1 | Mo
v3.1 Updates: Mo No changes at all, my analysis stands.

Item build: Bruiser. As noted above, he's a beatstick with a good source of free AP and just the one extra attack (that might not even go off). You're better off itemising to keep that bonus AP in the fight rather than adding more on top.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing really, he already has a good initiation. If you really insist on taking some kind of Mo-related Tactic, taking a Field Hit bonus like Aggressive can help avoid those depressing moments when you whiff a 500+ gold bounty claim off Death From Above.

Funnelling: Not worth. He only has one card really worth playing often, and that's pretty expensive. He already gets free stats, too. You must have better options.

Rejected gags:
He doesn't actually have a scar. It's leftover makeup from his secret hobby - cosplaying[finalfantasy.fandom.com] Final[finalfantasy.fandom.com] Fantasy[finalfantasy.fandom.com] characters[finalfantasy.fandom.com].
Nihil
Okay, let's see here. Katana, check. Unnecessarily bare torso, check. Red eyes, check. Grimdark effect names, check. Confirmed, we've got an edgelord here. Sound the edgelord alarm.

Name: Nihil

Position: Top / Jungle / Mid

Role: Fighter

Mastery choices:
Gain 3 stacks of Killing Intent when hitting an attack during a fight / While in Crimson form, gain 2 stacks of Killing Intent at the end of each round in a fight for damaged enemy heroes rather than 1

Killing Intent provides 50% more armour penetration / Ghost Cloak provides 5 more armour per stack

Itemisation: Fighter

Synergies: Targeted assassins

Counters: None

Countered by: Hass (steals Ghost Cloak)

Summary: Versatile Fighter shifting between assassination potential and durability.

Analysis: Nihil is a Fighter with a lot of moving parts which can make him a little tricky to understand. The central mechanic of his kit is Killing Intent, a passive which gains stacks periodically - he gains 2 stacks when dealing damage or killing monsters with card effects on the field provided he's above 60% health (if below he heals instead), and also gains one stack at the end of each round of combat for each hero (friend or foe) that was damaged that round.

Killing Intent has two effects based on Nihil's current form; he changes form based on his current health, Crimson if at 60% health or above, Azure if below 60%. While in Crimson form he automatically targets the lowest health enemy and gains armour penetration equal to 100/150% of his Killing Intent stacks; while in Azure form he instead gains 75% of his Killing Intent stacks as percentage Lifesteal. Finally, at the end of a fight he consumes all his Killing Intent stacks

Notably, Nihil also has only 10 base armour. In return for this he has a second passive, Ghost Cloak, which is only active in fights and which gives him 10/15 armour per stack, gaining one stack at the start of combat and at the end of each round to a max of five.

The overall effect of this is to make Nihil extremely flexible as his status shifts depending on the situation. In smaller skirmishes and in the early stages of a fight he uses Crimson to target enemy squishies, and while his base damage isn't incredible he will at least cut through a chunk of their armour; during this period he's fairly squishy (you'll want to get the bonus armour mastery for this reason). As the fight goes on he grows progressively tankier thanks to Ghost Cloak, eventually arriving at 85 armour (with masteries), comparable to a low grade tank - and when he's taken a few hits he'll shift to Azure form and use the Killing Intent stacks he's accrued to start lifestealing instead. Between his stacking armour and lifesteal he can become very difficult to shift, this coinciding with the point of the fight when your other frontline units are dying and he starts taking more focus as a result.

Due to his ability to get some chip damage onto enemy carries while still performing a durable frontline Fighter role, Nihil is a solid pick who can be flexed between all three solo positions. Note however that you shouldn't expect miracles from him - he will hit carries like an assassin, and he will be quite durable like a tank, but he won't perform either role like a dedicated hero. He's not going to kill an ADC alone, nor is he going to soak several rounds of full focus; what he will do is provide solid damage output on key targets while also being more durable than most Fighters.

You should, therefore, consider Nihil a safe and versatile pick, but not a priority one. Either take him as a blind pick if you're looking to counter what your opponent is doing, or save him as a fall-back pick if your priority picks are banned out. He has no real counters besides Hass, so he can be grabbed in any situation - the one downside is that his cards are both overpriced and numerous at 4 total copies.

Cards:
While this card is in hand, whenever you play one of Nihil's cards it gains a token; loses all tokens at the end of the round. Costs 1 less for each token. When played, start a fight with a hero within 1 hex (1 hex participation range, 3 round duration). Nihil gains 3 stacks of Killing Intent for each token.

Rather overcomplicated for what amounts to a vanilla initiation; the token system is basically a discount for playing his otherwise overly-expensive cards. The bonus stacks are so low impact as to be borderline irrelevant, so just treat this like a standard Initiation card.


Nihil moves 1 hex, then attacks all enemy heroes in both his starting hex and the one he moved to.

Awkwardly short range for the cost, you'll be lucky to get more than one attack off with this; nonetheless it's more likely to be useful in lane where you're at least near-guaranteed to have something to hit with it. Can be used to get in range for Deathmatch, and thanks to the discount from tokens you'll functionally be playing 1 SP to do so.



Target a hex 1 hex away from Nihil. He attacks all monsters and enemy heroes in a fan-shaped area in that direction (the targeted hex, his own hex, and the two to either side of it).

Again quite expensive for what it does. You'll get most value out of this from using it to counter-jungle; happily you can do that from lane, especially if you happen to have lost your turret already. Otherwise you're paying 2 SP to clear a couple of monsters and maybe slap an enemy if you're lucky.
As of 3.1.24 cost of Hito Tachi is reduced to 1 SP. This isn't enough to really shift the meter on his power level, but does make him a bit better overall since the card is actually playable now.

Interactions:
Targeted assassins - Due to his low-health targeting in Crimson form, Nihil can act as damage support for targeted assassins like Xiangxi Ke. He doesn't have enough damage to kill targets on his own, but he certainly has enough to supplement their damage to make kills more likely.

Hass - Like a lot of heroes, Hass rains on Nihil's whiny parade - Ghost Cloak is stealable.
v2.1 | Nihil
No massive changes. His Variant is pretty good though.

Variant 1

Removed - If Nihil is in Crimson form in fights he prioritises attacking the lowest health enemy.

Gained - If Nihil is in Crimson form in fights he gains 4 AP per stack of Killing Intent.

Generally a solid buff - Nihil lacks the damage to straight up assassinate anything, so targeting the weakest enemy was always a bit unimpressive. This Variant instead gifts him with some tasty extra damage so he can contribute more when the enemy is ignoring him. Note that this does remove his synergy with certain heroes (Xiangxi Ke, Lubos) - but really, you weren't going to run them anyway.
v3.1 | Nihil
v3.1 Updates: No major changes, though did notice his Variant's entry had him gaining 3 AP rather than 4 per stack - unsure if that's my error or if he got a tiny buff for some reason. He drops in the tier lists simply because he's just a bruiser (albeit very bruiser), lacking sufficient identity to be the optimal choice in many comps.

Item build: Bruiser. Nihil is the quintessential bruiser, dealing passable damage and being extremely hard to shift. You should itemise him as such - enough defences to avoid him falling over before Ghost Cloak stacks up, and enough damage that keeping him around actually does something.

Reserve Tactics: If you really like Nihil, keeping a Focus card in your support's back pocket is valuable because aside from Deathmatch his cards are pretty garbage.

Funnelling: Middling. You don't want to search his cards - they suck - but throwing him extra stats can have value since he's unlikely to die easily.

Rejected gags:
For someone whose mechanics are all about red and blue, that's an awfully brown-grey colour palette he's working with there.

If you're wondering what the Edgelord Alarm sounds like, imagine a small child crying feebly over the sound of heavily-distorted thrash metal guitar riffs.
Reinhardt
Like any good cavalryman, the centaur Reinhardt charges enemy lines in the optimal way - entirely parallel to the line, then returning to the front to fight normally. Alternate gag - I'm holding out for Reinhardt 2 - Reinhardter.

Name: Reinhardt

Position: Top / Jungle

Role: Fighter / Tank

Mastery choices:
Supersonic costs 1 less and can move 1 more hex / Supersonic searches 1 more card

Reinhardt's special attack inflicts 10 more armour reduction / Reinhardt's special attack hits ranged units as well as melee ones



Reinhardt's bonus damage to ranged enemies increases to 50% / Gain 35 health per level and 1 Presence

Itemisation: One Slap Chap

Synergies: Lan, Felyn (round 1 armour reduction); alpha strike comps

Counters: None

Countered by: None

Summary: Strong defensive Fighter with mild offensive and support capability.

Analysis: Reinhardt is a tanky Fighter who brings a bit of everything. He has good defensive base stats along with being melee, which lets him function fairly well as a tank; he also has an effect which causes him to make a single special attack on entering a fight, striking all enemy melee (or all units, with masteries) and reducing their armour for one round, which makes him good in smaller skirmishes. On top of that, he has some good utility cards, and a passive which causes him to deal 30/50% damage to a ranged unit when he attacks a melee.

All of these added together let him fill several roles in a team depending on what you want him to do. He can work as an initiation tank, in which case he'll primarily be drafted for his cheap initiation and armour shred attack; he can also function as a pseudo-support, healing and searching cards for a carry. His best role, however, is to build Fighter with maybe one defensive item; this allows him to use all the parts of his kit effectively, and particularly his passive damage spreading onto ranged units.

While Reinhardt has no actual counters as such, he's best picked into teams with at least one backline carry and at least one pure tank. This is because his passive does nothing if he's actually hitting a ranged unit, nor if the enemy have no ranged units at all. An enemy tank is likely to have some external Presence, either from items or masteries, which makes it much more likely Reinhardt will hit them (and thus also get damage on the backline at the same time).

Note that he can function just as well in top lane and jungle; personally I feel top is the better choice because the full-map travel distance can give you a secondary initiation method, but find I just can't justify the hero pool slot on my top laner. It's much easier to find room for him in your jungle pool. Regardless, either can work, particularly as cards are generally global.

Cards:
Target an enemy hero (global) and attack them. This attack always hits and heals all allies within 1 hex for 250% of the damage dealt.

Another good reason to build at least some damage, this card is pretty solid as a pre-initiation tool to heal up your team and poke down an enemy. While not usually a priority card, between global range and always hitting it's a good way of dumping excess SP. I usually find myself playing this just to snipe a low health target after a fight.



Choose an enemy hero in a straight line from Reinhardt; initiate a standard 3 round fight (1 round participation range). Reinhardt's special attack in this fight deals 10% more damage for each hex Reinhardt moved to reach his target.

A little underwhelming, primarily because it's very awkward to get a good line-up on an enemy hero and the payoff is just a standard 3/1 initiation. That said, it's very cheap for an initiation card; the bonus damage is rarely enough to be relevant.


Choose an allied hero. They move 2 hexes, then search one of their cards into hand.

A decent utility card, but very expensive for what it does (mostly because the game seems to hugely overvalue movement). Its best use is often to line Reinhardt up for a charge (he can target himself and with the mastery to draw two cards instead of one, will always draw Cavalry Charge). As a search card it's decent but not incredible due to the cost; bear in mind that the target has to move at least one hex, which can cause some awkwardness for heroes like Felyn.

Interactions:
Alpha Strike - Reinhardt's special attack shreds a solid amount of armour in round 1. This is beneficial for heroes who dump a lot of damage in round 1 - Felyn and Lan most notably, but also Lubos, Ada etc. With the addition of Chen Fengcheng there's a lot more opportunity to build a comp around bit first round damage, though note that unfortunately Chen's attack happens before Reinhardt's so you don't get the armour shred on it.

Funnelling - Supersonic's search functionality combines nicely with heroes who want to be funnelled. Felyn and Cubey are the two obvious examples.
v2.1 | Reinhardt
Something of a loser in the update overall - he didn't really see much itemisation he likes and his Variants are unimpressive due to pushing him towards itemising damage. Having said that, you're mostly drafting him for his cards, so his position in tier lists doesn't change.

Variant 1

Changed - Reinhardt's special attack shreds 25 10 armour for one round.

Changed - When hitting a melee enemy Reinhardt also deals 30% 35% damage to a random enemy ranged unit.

Barely changes anything. The loss of some armour shred for the first round might in theory weaken his skirmish game, but in practice the extension of duration makes up for it within 3 rounds. Between the extended duration and the slight boost to his pierce damage, his objective game does get a lot stronger though.

Variant 2

Changed - Reinhardt's special attack shreds 25 armour for one round ignores 45 armour.

Changed - When hitting a melee enemy Reinhardt also deals 30% 40% damage to a random enemy ranged unit.

A slight nerf. These changes push you towards building damage on Reinhardt, which is precisely what you don't want to do - he's not going to deal damage worth a poop either way, so you're better off bulking him up. Meh.
v3.1 | Reinhardt
v3.1 Updates: Updated mastery choices as I've greatly changed in my view. Otherwise tweaked his entry, most notably around his position - he feels better in top lane, but good luck finding a spot for him in the incredibly bloated top lane hero pool.

Item build: One slap chap. Like Hakuna, he shows up, blows his load and then hangs around not doing a lot. Itemising for his pierce damage is a mistake, since he's never going to do much damage on his attacks either way and it hurts when he decides to just hit a ranged unit anyway.

Reserve Tactics: Not much. You can maybe justify bringing in a movement card to line up Cavalry Charge, but half the reason that card is good is it's so cheap, so dropping SP lining it up is a bit counterproductive.

Funnelling: No. He's there to search cards for you, not get them searched, and he doesn't use bonus stats well enough.

Rejected gags:
The point of a joust is to unseat your opponent, Reinhardt. Being a centaur is cheating.

I really thought that was face paint, but given the different eye colour, I think that might actually be a bizarre cybernetic eye-implant-thing on his face. Apparently centaurs have sci fi technology. And yet still fight using sharpened sticks.
Xiangxi Ke
Yarr, I be a pirate! I got me hair over one eye like an eyepatch, and I got me... uh... katana... and I got me... Uh... Okay, fine, I'm not a pirate. I just wanted to look cool and different. Is that so wrong? - Xiangxi Ke

Name: Xiangxi Ke

Position: Jungle / Mid

Role: Assassin

Mastery choices: None

Itemisation: Assassin

Synergies: Other forced-target effects, particularly Lubos

Counters: Low health backline carries

Countered by: A lack thereof

Summary: Unimpressive assassin who can focus low health targets. Sometimes.

Analysis: Xiangxi Ke is a pirate ninja assassin girl cosplaying as a pirate-ninja-assassin whose playstyle is defined by her The Reaper buff. So long as she has at least one stack of this buff, her attacks in fights automatically target the lowest health enemy, expending a stack in the process. She acquires stacks by discarding her Old Time card, of which there are two in her deck (with masteries).

The trouble is, that's basically all she does. When an enemy dies she gets an immediate free attack on the lowest health enemy with a 25% damage buff (doesn't use a Reaper stack), but this isn't really enough to make all that much difference, and besides her targeting she's otherwise a vanilla assassin. She's extremely squishy, and so effectively pins her hopes on being able to take out a critical target before she inevitably dies herself (which, in fairness, is pretty much what a MOBA assassin does).

Her other distinguishing feature is her discard effects; Old Time needs to be discarded to do anything, and her other two cards require her to discard a card to play them. This makes her one of very few heroes in the game with an at-will discard, which can be of some value to comps which want to search a specific unplayable card repeatedly (but you almost never want to do that, and even if you do, Paisai has a discard effect and is actually decent).

The overall result is that Xiangxi Ke simply isn't good enough to be worth drafting unless you have a very specific reason to do so. She performs her role, but not particularly effectively, nor are her cards particularly noteworthy. Look elsewhere unless you absolutely need a consistent backline targeter in your lineup. Has some small synergy with Leon thanks to his ability to force-target backliines, which can help get Xiangxi Ke to hit the things you actually want her to target instead of spending the first three rounds beating down a random support.

Cards:
Has no effect and can't be played. When discarded, Xiangxi Ke gains a stack of The Reaper.

A weirdly awkward card unless you're actively discarding it - since you can't play it to get rid of it, it just clutters up your hand until it's discarded due to hand size, at which point you draw another card for no real benefit. On the other hand, if you discard it with a card effect it self-cycles, putting you in the same position as if you hadn't drawn it - except you had to play a discard effect which was probably pretty underwhelming. Something of a catch-22. Either way, sooner or later this'll hit the discard and give you a stack of The Reaper.

Discard a card to play. Target a hex within 2 hexes in a straight line. Xiangxi Ke moves to that hex and starts a fight with all heroes within 1 hex, standard 3 round duration.

Pretty much a vanilla initiation card; it has a slightly better range, but you have to discard a card for the privilege. The main benefit to playing this card over a more generic alternative is that it targets a hex rather than a hero; this can help you to pick out the specific heroes you want involved in the fight. Still pretty unimpressive, though.


Discard a card to play. Target a hex within 2 hexes in a straight line. Xiangxi Ke moves to that hex, then attacks all monsters and enemy heroes within 1 hex.

Somewhat awkward, but reasonably priced for what it does. You'll primarily want to use this to counterjungle since otherwise you're paying 2 SP for a couple of hits, which is only barely worth it.





Interactions:
Forced targeting - In a vacuum, Xiangxi Ke's low health targeting accomplishes very little. To actually get some value out of it you need to deal enough damage to that target to kill them in a reasonable timeframe, and the best way to do that is to focus them. Bringing multiple forced-target or AoE attacks at once will hopefully allow Xiangxi Ke to pick off the weakest enemy and then start a chain reaction using her passive to greater effect. This is most notably useful with Lubos, as his armour shred helps Xiangxi Ke to secure kills and his special attack deals enough damage to usually allow you to pick which squishy you want to focus down.
v2.1 | Xiangxi Ke
Some small wins for the pirate wannabe - she finds some use for the new itemisation (armour penetration is definitely tasty for assassins), and her second Variant is very strong. Might actually be worth playing when her second Variant is active.

Variant 1

Changed - Xiangxi Ke's extra attack procs whenever an enemy any unit dies, dealing 125% 80% damage.

Generally a nerf - in theory you can get more value out of this since it'll proc more often, but in practice if anyone on your team is going to fall over it's usually the glass cannon melee. Arguably makes no difference because she was underwhelming before and is underwhelming after.

Variant 2

Changed - Xiangxi Ke's extra attack deals 125% 100% damage.

Gained - Xiangxi Ke gains 4% bonus damage for each stack of The Reaper.

By contrast, this is a BIG buff. Losing a little bit of damage on the bonus attack does reduce your snowball potential in fights, but not by much - the damage gained from The Reaper stacks balances it out. More importantly, gaining a sizeable damage boost from the stacks that make you target vulnerable enemies greatly enhances Xiangxi Ke's ability to kill off a weakened target quickly, which is her entire raison d'etre. If you see this Variant come up, seriously consider teaching your jungler to play her.
v3.1 | Xiangxi Ke
v3.1 Updates: Some minor tweaks since Leon has showed up to make everything more complicated.

Item build: Assassin. She's there to stab low health targets, and she only has a limited number of stacks to do it. Make them count.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing much. You could grab a discard effect like Rethink to dump Old Time, but Reaper is the sort of thing you build up over the course of the game rather than prioritising and has an upper effective limit. Well worth doing if you've got Variant 2 active, though.

Funnelling: Pretty good, actually, on both counts. Tutoring her cards lets you pull Old Time and throw it away repeatedly, more AP lets her cut down her target, and more health gives you the optimistic hope of her surviving more than one hit from an ADC.

Rejected gags:
If she actually looked like she does in her Old Time artwork I'd be so much more into the character. Just an angy kid with a stick beating down adults with guns. I'd try so hard to make that work.

Her hair being over the wrong eye in Blitz's artwork makes me so sad. And before you say it, no it's not just flipped - compare the eye makeup in the artwork to her portrait. Maybe she just has a really indecisive stylist.

Here I am trying to come up with dumb jokes for this entry and the whole time she's giving me the side-eye from the archive screen. I KNOW I'M NOT FUNNY BUT I'M TRYING OKAY LEAVE ME ALONE
Zealot
One day, Zealot was discussing amongst itself which was the best of them. 'I'm the original' said Zealot, 'so clearly I'm the best.' 'Yes, but I was the first clone' said Clone #1. 'Without me, you'd be nothing.' 'But I get all the kills' said Clone #2, 'you soften them up, but I finish them off'. At this point Bond, who'd overheard the conversation, chimed in. 'You're all Zealot' he said, 'so you're all equally important'. To this, Zealot replied simply 'bugger me, a talking monkey!'.

Name: Zealot

Position: Top / Jungle

Role: Fighter

Mastery choices:
Gain an extra 2.25 AP and 30 health per level / Gain an extra 3 AP and 22.5 health per level

Gain an additional 1 armour per level / Levels and gold grant 85% effectiveness instead of 75%

Itemisation: Fighter. Avoid Presence (he really doesn't need more focus) and crit.

Synergies: Buffs (triple effect)

Counters: None

Countered by: AoE

Summary: Very potent triple hero, very high cap but vulnerable to being nuked.

Analysis: Zealot is, simply put, three heroes in one. When its gets into a fight, two clones show up with the same stats as Zealot and all three fight for you. This is obviously pretty great - three attacks per round! - but it does also have its drawbacks; Zealot is very prone to taking an excess of damage in fights simply because there's more of it to hit. It also only gets 75/85% scaling from levels and gold, so its stats are naturally slightly lower than other Fighters - and while this isn't an issue for AP due to having three bodies, it is problematic on the health front because all three Zealots share the same health bar.

This cloning effect makes Zealot one of the best heroes in the game to target for buffs. The clones will receive any buffs Zealot itself receives, and being naturally somewhat vulnerable to incoming damage, health is extremely welcome; AP's effectiveness is, of course, tripled. On top of this, it has one of the most effective set of ganking cards in the game, making it one of the premium junglers in the game.

When itemising Zealot you should be careful to identify items which it will use to full effectiveness. Any passive effect on an item will only be given to Zealot, not to its clones; only the stats will be shared. Zealot's clones also don't receive any crit chance or crit damage effects, making crit entirely redundant. While the clones do receive Presence, this should be avoided because Zealot already has issues with being focussed - adding Presence to all three Zealot instances is going to make it soak the vast majority of hits, leading to it falling over very quickly. On the other hand, any effect which improves Zealot's AP, health and armour will be shared by the clones provided it works before the fight; any effect which happens during the fight will only be received by Zealot itself.

As a result of its relative vulnerability, Zealot is not a good generic pick. If you want a jungler to operate without assistance and be self-sufficient, look elsewhere. If you're able to supply it with buffs, on the other hand, Zealot becomes one of (if not the) best junglers in the game; it buffs well, ganks well, and therefore snowballs very quickly.

Cards:
Target a hero or turret within 2 hexes. Zealot moves to that hex and attacks three times, healing for 15% of its max health for each hit. Then search Code: Engage to your hand.

A very strong card, particularly because (if you're doing it right) you'll be giving Zealot plenty of bonus AP and health. For just 1 SP you're getting 2 hexes of movement, three attacks, healing a chunk and searching your initiation card into hand. One of the rare cases of adding an extra card to your deck being a very good thing.


Zealot moves up to 2 hexes and kills all monsters within 1 hex, gaining 50% bonus gold and experience from them.

Unfortunately very expensive for what it does, 4 SP is far too much to spend on speeding up farming your own jungle, particularly as Zealot gets reduced effectiveness from gold and levels. You should only play this when you can use it to steal a substantial chunk of the enemy's jungle so that you're starving them as well as boosting Zealot.



Start a fight with an enemy within 1 hex. 1 hex participation range, 3 round duration.

Entirely generic initiation other than its reduced cost of 4; nonetheless a fairly effective one simply because the cost reduction lets you poke the target down first. Being searched by Code: Assimilation is the real clincher, since you get a nice natural progression of poke -> engage. That said, if you've got a better initiation card from somewhere feel free to use it, since this is otherwise vanilla.


Interactions:
Buffs - As has hopefully been made clear, Zealot is a great buff target due to getting triple AP scaling and needing health to keep itself alive. Your main buffers are, as always, Beverly and Dylan. Also note that any buff effect which gives a bonus outside of a fight but expires after one attack is particularly effective on Zealot, because the clones will retain the bonus for the entire duration of the fight - this is most notable with Crank's Spectral Weapon and Bunu Shan's Wrath.

AoE - By contrast, AoE can really mess Zealot up. Even just the relatively low grade AoE of Reinhardt plus Hakuna can be enough to chunk Zealot out and leave him vulnerable to incoming attacks - avoid picking him into Niels or Enidi wherever possible since he'll functionally be taking triple damage from them.

Multi Attacker - As a hero who effectively attacks three times, Zealot interacts with all the various heroes who function on a per-action basis (Kamaitachi, Merisi etc.)
v2.1 | Zealot
One of the few strong heroes that didn't get stronger with the update. He didn't gain anything much from the new itemisation, and his Variant makes next to no difference if you're using Zealot the way you should be (i.e. the way I told you to because I'm a double-triple-super-genius). He didn't lose anything directly, of course... but now there's a hero who counters him so hard you basically lose the game on the spot if you screw up the draft. Good times.

Variant 1

Changed - Levels and gold only have 75% 15% effect on Zealot's max health.

Removed - Zealot and his clones always share health.

On paper something of a mixed bag; the reduction in health makes Zealot more likely to die to any kind of sizeable hit, but on the other hand, he won't die if his clones do (and they'll keep fighting if he goes down). In practice this really doesn't do much at all because if you're drafting Zealot it's because you're planning to 'roid him up with Beverly/Dylan/etc anyway, so you won't really notice anything at all besides a bit more staying power in long fights. The main downside is that this weakens Zealot's snowball potential, particularly in versions with high gold income or low equipment cost - once you've got your equipments, kill gold does much less for him. Does at least make him more reliable since if one falls over the others stay standing for a while.
v3.1 | Zealot
v3.1 Updates: No real changes. He's the same as he always was; 3.1 gave him some minor protection from one-slappers via Anna, but you're going to be drafting a buff support so that doesn't matter much. He's also vulnerable to Chen's boat, but not enough for it to be a counterpick. Turns out Chen boat only targets heroes, so the Zealot clones don't get hit.

Item build: Special case. Again, Zealot wants raw stats that work before the fight starts. If an item gives them, great, he gets three items for the price of one. If not, he's paying for item passives that he doesn't use as well as others thanks to his weakened gold scaling. A short, non-exhaustive list of solid Zealot items:

Cheap but surprisingly effective items: Dirty Little Pistol, Little Lightning, Farming Bell

Stat sticks: Inherent Shield (terrible item generally, but better than most for him), Link Line (Presence counteracted by the clones each counting separately for armour gain), Double-Layered Armour (Cheap and always active on clones), Glorious shield (ONLY while Variant is active because the clones will keep the Presence and soak hits for the original when he falls low), Giant Warhammer (buff your buffs), Fearless Headband, Big Guy Vest (third item only), Hundred ATK Sword (if you want to pay 1000 gold more for a Dirty Little Pistol)

Only good if combined: Gravity Converter & Limitless Chip (the crit isn't shared, but the stats are great and he should have a lot of health from buffs)

Reserve Tactics: Nothing. Zealot is the complete package.

Funnelling: Yes. Tutoring his cards is fine since they're generally good. Buffs are important - don't play Zealot unless you're drafting a support to bolster his statline.

Rejected gags:
I consider myself pretty knowledgeable about this game, but I have absolutely idea what the hell is going on with Zealot. What even are they? Why are they called Zealot? Do they hold particularly strong beliefs? Are they even sapient? Biological? I have no clue.

Code: Engage's artwork is in fact a promotional poster from the only tour ever performed by short-lived post-punk band Zealot & The Clones.
v2.1 | Raven
Sorry guys, the Batman reference is just too easy. I can't resist. Because, you see... HE IS THE NIGHT. ...At least I avoided the Rick and Morty reference.

Name: Raven

Position: Jungle / Mid

Role: Assassin

Mastery Choices: Gain 1 extra stack of Abyss when entering Objective Fights or the Final Fight / Restore all feathers when you have 3 feathers left. Gain an additional 2 AP per level.

Gain an additional 2% crit damage per level / Gain 1 extra stack of Abyss when entering Objective Fights or the Final Fight.

Itemisation: Armour penetration and damage.

Synergies: Movement effects.

Counters: Squishy solo laners, especially Niels.

Countered by: Anything with a lot of armour, being forced into fights.

Summary: Very feast-or-famine snowballing assassin.

Analysis: Raven is an extremely awkward hero to use. He has awkward cards, awkward positioning, an awkward passive, nothing about him is intuitive. Despite this however he merits a high placing in the tier lists for the simple reason that IF you can get him to work he becomes incredibly dominant and will destroy teams with ease. He's much like Lan in this regard - assassins who require a lot of investment but who will return that investment tenfold if things go right.

The first thing to understand about Raven his is feathers. He starts the game with one feather for each direction (so six total since the game is hex-based - maths is fun!). Two of his cards consume feathers; additionally, if he is moved due to a card effect (including forced movement from enemy cards), and if there's an enemy in an adjacent hex and if Raven is still in possession of the feather for that enemy's direction, he will consume that feather to attack them. You only get feathers back when you've spent several of them(3 or 4 depending on mastery).

While this is all irritatingly complex, what you have to realise to play Raven well is that the feathers don't really matter - what matters is spending them. This is because for each feather expended he gains an Abyss stack, and these are where his power really lies. When entering fights Raven gains two additional Abyss stacks; each of his attacks (only in fights, not on the field) will ignore 4 armour per stack and then remove one stack. Importantly, if that attack ignores all of the target's armour that attack will automatically crit. Also importantly, the mastery granting Abyss 1 extra armour pen seems buggy (at least he seems to sometimes fail to penetrate targets he should be able to).

Your goal to make Raven work is twofold. Firstly, you want to build up a lot of Abyss stacks. You'll primarily do this by moving him around, but small skirmishes will also help - since you gain two stacks on entering a fight, if he only attacks once during that fight he comes out ahead. Secondly, once you've got a lot of Abyss stacks you want to give him a lot of AP - pretty much every attack he throws from that point will be dealing true damage and auto-critting, so gaining AP has a big impact on his actual damage output. If you can successfully complete both steps, you'll wind up with a Raven who can happily chunk tanks and one-shot squishies.

Importantly however, without reaching that critical mass of Abyss stacks, Raven is pretty much trash. He'll just swing ineffectually and then go down fast. For this reason, you shouldn't draft Raven unless you plan on playing around him or he'll be nothing but a liability. He is at least much less all-or-nothing than Lan is - Abyss stacks don't wear off other than through attacking so you can take your time building them, and once you've got plenty you can happily throw some attention towards other heroes.

In summary, Raven winds up being a version of Lan who does even less early on, but who's paradoxically less of a pain to manage SP-wise and becomes more reliable when fully online. Like all assassins though, be wary of drafting him against better teams - glass cannons are a lot less effective when they can't reliably hit things.

As an additional note - Raven gains 2 Abyss stacks going into an objective fight even if that fight doesn't happen because the opposing team declines the fight. Good setup for your objective game can give you some easy stacks this way. You should also take care in your itemisation - Dawnlight Cloak, Whip of Obedience and Archmage Hat can all make a big impact on keeping Raven slapping for longer.

Cards:
Pick an enemy hero in a straight line from Raven and expend a feather to initiate a 3-round 0-radius fight.

In keeping with Raven's theme this is quite an awkward card to use - you need to expend a feather to play it, so you can't reposition to play it at close range since every time you do so, the corresponding feather will be consumed. It does come with some bright sides though - it's straight-line but unlimited range so you can make plays from the other side of the map, it consumes a feather while starting a fight (so you go in with 3 extra stacks, guaranteeing you'll at least break even), and it's one of the very few initiations which only pull in heroes from the target's hex, so you can pick off enemy heroes even if the jungler's stood next to them.

Expend a feather to move up to three hexes in that direction.

Simple, though a bit expensive, this does at least have good distance on it and expends at least one feather to try to justify the cost. You'll usually want to be using this to move laterally to set up a Death Claw (i.e. moving northeast so you can initiate southeast etc.), or to jump across the map to join in someone else's initiation. You can also use it to move out of a target's hex (if you're on top of them) to line up a Death Claw without burning the relevant feather.



Move 1 hex, then return this card to your hand and increase its cost by 1. Cost increases reset when Raven gets a kill in a fight.

A bit of a shame this only resets on fight kills - otherwise a fed Raven could just flap around the map throwing death at everything he could find. You'll find yourself most commonly using this to pick up cleanup kills after a fight, unfortunately; alternatively you can just throw it out when you've got the spare SP just to grab some Abyss stacks (provided you're in range to throw a feather at someone, of course). You should try to do so especially when you're anticipating a fight Raven doesn't have to initiate - either because a teammate will do it or because there's an objective fight coming up - since you're likely to get the cost reset anyway. You'll almost never want to play this when it costs 2 or more.

Interactions:
Shred: Raven's crits happen when his armour penetration is greater than the target's armour. The main way you do that is by improving his armour pen via Abyss, but you can also take the inverse route of lowering the target's armour before he attacks. There are a lot of ways to do that, of course, so look for ways of landing targeted, longer-duration shred (e.g. Wukong's Bludgeon Bash) or team-wide shred (e.g. Reinhardt's initial attack).

Move me: Feathers can be expended from card movement, no matter who it comes from; you can therefore try to draft additional movement sources to help Raven to dump his feathers and get those Abyss stacks rolling. Of course, the catch there is that movement cards in this game are almost universally overcosted, and the few that aren't still cost a lot. There are a few notable cards (Reinhardt's Supersonic, Lady Deadfire's Flame Spread) which are worth bearing in mind though (Crank's Swap doesn't count for some reason).
v3.1 | Raven
v3.1 Updates: No changes. Anna cucks him pretty hard though. Also note that Raven's strength heavily varies based on the items in your current version - Double-Layered Armour is a ubiquitous tank item that will be virtually impossible to peck through until late into the fight.

Item build: Assassin. Avoid crit - you're working towards your full penetration auto-crits after all. armour penetration is nice, but be wary of indexing too hard into it at the expense of raw AP; crit damage is great if you can get the stacks, awful if you can't.

Reserve Tactics: A movement card of some kind can help you dump feathers when Fly in Night's cost becomes prohibitive. Nothing much else, though.

Funnelling: Probably not. You can tutor his cards with a mind to dumping more feathers, but they're kinda pricey for that. Unlikely to be worth throwing stats his way unless you're really sure you can get the Abyss train rolling.

Rejected gags:
I just realised - Raven doesn't seem to have hands, so he had to pay someone to sew that flag on his archive screen for him. That's absolutely adorable.

Hmm. Wikipedia indicates that corvus species tend to have rounder, straighter beaks with no extant species having a jagged lower section. You know, I'm starting to think this guy might not really be a raven at all.
v3.1 | Leon
Some designs are original, some are stolen from other IP. Leon was clearly the product of an emaciated homeless man being kicked through a Hot Topic.

Name: Leon

Position: Top / Jungle

Role: Fighter

Mastery choices: Nightmare Slayer's duration increases by one round / Gain 3 AP per level

Itemisation: Bruiser

Synergies: Targeted or semi-targeted attacks

Counters: Heavy frontlines, Frank, Deep Space

Countered by: None

Summary: Target-selecting bruiser with built-in inevitability.

Analysis:
While there are several heroes in the game that prioritise certain targets, Leon is unique in being the only one who gets to pick his targets for the entire game, before anyone even enters a fight. This is accomplished through the card Eternal Brand, which gives its target a debuff (with, confusingly, the exact same name).

While bearing the debuff, targets will receive stacks every time they're hit by Leon in fights (one stack), on the field (one stack), with Eternal Brand's attack itself (three stacks), or with Terrifying Swing (five stacks per hit). Stacks do nothing in themselves, but represent a threshold - if Leon damages the target while they're below this threshold (not the attack which drops them below), he will instantly kill them and earn 20/35 bonus gold for each stack, then if he's in a fight he gets another attack for free. The stacks are then removed (or halved, if killed using Nightmare Slayer). Incidentally, these stacks clearly aren't stacks of Eternal Brand since the debuff still exists at zero stacks, implying the existence of a third effect - the debuff - also called Eternal Brand. What great design.

Eternal Brand (the card) is generated once at the start of the game, then once again each time an item is equipped by Leon. This leaves you in a slightly awkward position - the whole reason you take Leon is to focus a key target or two, but sooner or later you'll have generated four of these things. You get to choose between risking Leon hitting an irrelevant target or having entirely unplayable cards cluttering your deck, neither of which feels good.

Furthermore, outside of his debuff stacks Leon is just a vanilla bruiser - he has no added damage, nor all that much AP from stat growth. He'll kill a squishy eventually, but it won't be quick. If you actually want to kill a priority target before it can do whatever it is that's making you prioritise them, you'll need to draft some AoE or another targeted effect to expedite the process.

Despite this issue Leon is a strong, if niche, pick in the jungle. He may not kill his targets quickly, but he will kill them sooner or later, and that can matter a lot. Throw in a Felicity, Lubos, Xiangxi Ke etc. and that target won't be a problem for long.

Leon in top lane, on the other hand, is weird. You're forced to Brand your lane opponent for half your kit to function - but, it being top lane, that's probably a tank. Do you want your top laner to accomplish nothing in lane, or do you want him to focus something he might actually kill? Rough choice. Unless it's Frank.

Note: Despite being a debuff, Eternal Brand isn't treated as one for the purposes of debuff removal. It can't be cleansed by Tivie etc., nor can Felicity eat it or Wukong reflect it. I'd say that's necessary for his kit to function, but it's not like they gave that courtesy to Crank or similar, so...

Cards:
Initiate a fight with the target with the most Eternal Brand stacks (seems to prioritise order of debuff application in event of a tie). Four round duration, and no 'join fight' effects apply. If Leon kills his target, they only lose half their stacks.

An awful lot of card text for what amounts to a scuffle. Given Leon's bruiser profile, you're not getting the kill here unless you line up a lot of stacks beforehand (which is what the card wants you to do) or you're picking off a weakened target. Thanks to retaining half the stacks, though, you can use this to really abuse a stacked target and generate a nice amount of bonus gold.

Costs 1 SP per Branded hero. Each Branded hero attacks a random hero within 1 hex (friend or foe, can't target themselves). Nightmare Slayer is then added to your hand.

Really terrible card, I have no idea why it's designed this way. Random friend-or-foe targeting means nine times out of ten it'll hit a friendly target; even if it does hit an enemy, they're doing the hitting, not Leon, so you don't get any stacks. Never play this.



Leon attacks all enemies within two hexes, and for each hit, adds an extra four stacks of Eternal Brand (total 5). If there's only one eligible target, attack it twice.

This, on the other hand, is great. The damage itself is going to underwhelm, of course, but if you can isolate a target (and hit twice) that's a cool 30% added to their execute threshold and 350 gold waiting for you to claim. Get a couple of those off and Nightmare Slayer is going to start printing money.



Give an enemy hero the Eternal Brand debuff, then attack them. Single use, start with one copy and generate another every time an equipment is activated.

The card that starts it all. Can't be used on Branded targets, so good luck getting rid of them all. Note the debuff always applies whether the attack hits or not.




Interactions:
Double-dip items: Eternal Brand is created when an equipment is activated rather than purchased; this has the curious effect of making the item Chicken Rib generate an extra copy when it turns into Golden Chicken Rib. Really that just means don't build that item on Leon, because he really doesn't want more Brands.

Frank: Since Leon generates stacks from field hits, he acts as the ultimate counter to Frank - sooner or later, Frank will be unable to play his cards without you executing him. What's more, you remove him from teamfights when he's at his most dangerous. The trade-off is you're having to Brand a tank, and he'll almost always have the most stacks.

Deep Space: Hey look, someone who needs to avoid ever getting hit. Guess who's getting hit every round now? Good thing too, Deep Space really needed another counter.
v3.1 | Leon (cont.)
v3.1 Updates: Added.

Item build: Bruiser. You're going to need enough damage to get your target into execute range, and enough health to survive long enough to get there. Getting gold from stack count means you're disincentivised from building full damage on Leon, but if you're building an assassination comp it might still be worth doing so.

Reserve Tactics: If you're running him in the jungle, bring an Initiation card since all he's got is Nightmare Slayer. You should probably also bring Focus on your support to get rid of your excess Brand card(s). Ditch Mad Whisper too while you're at it.

Funnelling: Not bad, actually. Searching his cards is generally bad, but double-dipping on Terrifying Swing when you're lined up for it is great; bonus stats, on the other hand, help him do exactly what you brought him to do.

Rejected gags:
You just know Leon is that one 40-year-old guy at the student club trying and failing to pick up girls half his age. What a creeper.

Maybe this guy's Babe's villain. He does have a chest emblem after all...

Man, and to think I called Nihil an edgelord. These guys just love to double down on me. I still haven't forgotten the whole Hakuna/Matata thing.

v3.1 | Felicity
Everyone always brings up the whole snakes with boobs[i.kym-cdn.com] thing. But isn't a snake with hair creepier? Especially with that hairstyle.

Name:Felicity

Position: Top / Jungle / Mid / Support

Role: Support-Mage

Mastery choices: Gain an additional 10 armour / Gain 1 armour per level

Mirage Scales cost reduced by 1 / Happiness damage increased by 5% of target's AP per stack

Itemisation: Debuff Mage

Synergies: None; anti-synergy with allied debuffs, allied shields

Counters: Multi-hitters, debuff cleanses, periodic damage, Deep Space

Countered by: Wukong (debuff reflection)

Summary: Targeted debuff-oriented support-mage

Analysis:
Before I even start - yes, I know she's probably modelled on a Lamia[en.wikipedia.org] rather than just a snake with human features. But that's not funny.

So, Felicity. Her existence in fights revolves around the Happiness debuff (misspelled as Happniess in v3.8 to my amusement), a debuff which she targets at the start of fights, deals damage equal to 15/20% of the target's AP after they take an action, and stacks whenever they deal damage. For clarity on exactly how the debuff works, see the entry further down. Whenever she attacks in fights, meanwhile, she cleanses all debuffs from her target - which is to her benefit, because Happiness can't be cleansed and instead deals damage when you try.

While this is her only contribution to fights, it's a big one. Even with no other mechanics kicking in, the ability to target a dangerous squishy and make them destroy themselves - not even that slowly since the damage is based on their own power - is incredibly powerful. Then you start getting into the underlying mechanics and how it stacks based on damage, not attacks, and you'll realise that we finally have an actual counter to the various multi-hitters that have been dominant in the game since release. Not that that stops them being dominant - the AI bans her all the time for a reason - but at least it's something.

On the field, meanwhile, Felicity has an absurdly powerful card combo to set up a huge, long-lasting teamfight - 8 round 4v4s on her first turn are not uncommon. This is limited-use due to Return to Embrace being token-based, but allows for some massive early game plays; it also provides much-needed support for teamfight comps fighting against skirmishers in allowing you to get a real fight where your comp can work as designed.

While she can be slotted into any role but ADC, the best places to run her are jungle or support. In the jungle she has the best access to big teamfight initiations, as well as using her unusually well-costed mobility to find opportunistic kills. In support, meanwhile, she still provides the debuff you brought her for, and since it's based on the target's AP rather than her own she doesn't suffer too much from a lack of gold. You can also bring her in a solo lane, but her initiation is terrible for 1v1s and she'll find it much harder to find good spots to fight in.

A word of caution however: while Felicity is a very strong hero with a lot going for her, she does not play well with others (ironically). The fact that she eats her own team's debuffs means she's almost as hard a counter to your own team as Wukong is, if you're not careful with your draft; she also dislikes friendly shields since her debuff only stacks if health damage is dealt. She won't fit into every comp, so think of her as something you either first pick or grab late in the draft as a counterpick.

N.B. While Felicity is marked as a melee, has access to melee items and melee stat growth, she has a ranged hero's Presence. It's unclear whether this is a bug or an undocumented feature.

Cards (N.B. Like with Lan, I've reordered the cards from how they appear on the archive screen for my own satisfaction.):

Move one hex, then search for another of Felicity's hero cards and add it to your hand.

Step A. Rejoice, for in a rare show of reasonable thinking the developers decided to give you a cheap movement card. If anything this is undercosted - searching one of your cards is greatly necessary to facilitate your combo. Note that you have to move, there is no same-hex option (hexophobes!) so make sure you're going where you want to go when you play this (and keep it in mind if for some reason you want to search this to play it again instead of just searching the other combo piece).

Every hero (friend or foe) within 2 hexes of Felicity moves to her hex. You gain 1 SP for each hero targeted. Starts with 1 charge and gains 1 every 20 rounds. Note that despite the text saying you can have two charges, the max is in fact 1.

Step B. Now you're in position from Wriggle, it's time to gain an absurd amount of SP while also pulling in every poor idiot who thought he was safe in lane, as well as their families, pets and passing wildlife. Note that the card text is wrong on two counts - not only do you only have 1 max charge (and so should dump it on cooldown to avoid waste), but your targets don't actually need to move to give you SP - even if they're already on your hex, you still get paid. Can be used as an SP refill even if you don't feel the need to follow it up, but that's probably a waste.

Costs 2 SP plus one more for each hero in Felicity's hex. Initiate a fight with all heroes on Felicity's hex, with round count equal to the number of participants.

Step C. Payoff. Everyone's grouped up, so it's time to get a big ol' teamfight going. Assuming you're playing this off Return to Embrace (and that's usually the only time you'll play it), the fight is going to go on until one team is dead, so expect blood. Note that you could make this playable in lane with the cost reduction mastery (which would make it a cheaper Confrontation), but doing so means you miss out on a chunk of the debuff damage which is the entire reason you brought Felicity in the first place.

Target hero (friend or foe) has all buffs and debuffs removed. If you targeted an enemy they attack themselves once.

Step 2: ???[en.wikipedia.org]. The black sheep of Felicity's card family, this doesn't interact with your other cards at all, instead just providing minor utility (or overpriced poke). You'll usually find yourself leaving this card unplayed, as its best application is to remove expensive or fight-turning buffs (e.g. I Am Justice, Traveler's Blessing) or indefinite duration debuffs (e.g. Death Finger). Note that in line with Felicity's theme, this card causes a self-attack and so can deal surprisingly good damage if targeting an enemy squishy. Further note: buff removal does not include shields. Targeting, for example, Traveler's Blessing, will result in the buff component being removed while the shield will remain (subject to the target's self-attack).

Interactions:
Multi-hitters: Yep, you heard right, they have a counter now. Every instance of damage will add stacks, every action will cause damage. Kamaitachi quakes in fear.

Damaging items/debuffs: Again, it's every damage instance. Acceleration Coil, Lightning Mark, Frozen Stiff - any source of damage will stack up the debuff. Note that while these effects stack the debuff, it only triggers when the target takes an action or the debuff is cleansed.
v3.1 | Felicity (cont.)
v3.1 Updates: Added.

Item build: Mage/Support/Tank. Felicity can support a wide range of items. From the jungle you'll probably want to bring some AP items so she's got a chance of succeeding in ganks. In any role you'll want any good items which synergise with periodic damage ticks (i.e. Terror Anthology). For a support Felicity (or a jungle one if you have a high damage team) you'll probably want to lean into tank items thereafter since your debuff vanishes if she dies.

Reserve Tactics: For jungling, bring an initiation card since hers is virtually impossible to use well without some weird Deployment Phases; alternatively, a movement card can let you use Mirage Scales for ganks, but they're generally overpriced.

Funnelling: Generally no. Her combo requires a token on Return to Embrace, which is going to limit you a lot more than finding her cards (especially since you have a built-in tutor). Her debuff is entirely agnostic to her own stats, and that's all her power, so don't bother.

Rejected gags:
Forehead? Fivehead? At this point we're going to need to go into powers of ten to describe that hairline.

Frankly I'm disappointed they patched the Happniess typo. It kinda fit her, feeling like she wanted to create and/or manipulate human happiness without actually understanding it fully. Forever in my memory.

Is it me, or is Blessing's card art kind of... uh, vaginal? No? Just me then. Okay.

Happiness and Attack mechanics:
Since Happiness is a little weird in how it operates, I've opted to put the full description here rather than in the main entry. I'll also list points regarding Felicity's cleanse mechanic. I'm listing the points as bullets, both to make them easier to read and (far more importantly) easier to write.

- Damage is dealt before the target actually takes their action, and can kill them before they act.
- Target gains stacks whenever damage is dealt. Damage absorbed by shields does not count as damage being dealt. Damage from debuffs does.
- Damage from the debuff is based on the target's current AP - very unusually for this game, the debuff damage updates dynamically as the target's AP changes.
- Debuff triggers from any action the target takes, even if the target doesn't deal damage with that action. This can even include pre-fight actions provided Felicity's debuff application is before them in the action order (e.g. Anna's first round armour is an action and will trigger Happiness).
- Debuff damage does count as Felicity's damage for the purposes of mechanics like Lifesteal.
- The target needs to actually take their action for the debuff to trigger. Stunned targets don't take actions and so won't trigger the debuff damage.

- Felicity cleanses debuffs on her target after she attacks them, but before any additional effects from that attack. This means her debuff damage will occur after her attack's damage, and means that if Felicity's attack bears any other debuffs (e.g. Tiger Boy's Double Trouble) they'll be applied without being cleansed.
- Only effects applied by the heroes themselves count as cleansable debuffs. Debuffs from items (e.g. Terror Anthology) will not be cleansed.
Mid Laners
Tier list:

Key
S Tier: Heroes that can be safely blind-picked, with no real counters, strong cards and which counter some heroes; or heroes that have the potential to completely take over a game in the right comp

A Tier: Solid picks which have few counters, if any, and which can generally perform at least adequately in any given situation while having strong potential to excel, but lack some key tool(s) for being a complete package; or heroes that can become extremely powerful with the right comp and setup

B Tier: Heroes who are very situational, only working well with a great setup and/or against specific enemy heroes or comps (e.g. counterpicks); or heroes that can become extremely powerful, but are heavily countered by too many heroes to feasibly ban out for; or heroes that are good in fights but have terrible cards, or vice versa.

C Tier: Heroes that generally don't perform amazingly; they lack the tools to excel, meaning the best they can hope for is to perform their role in a satisfactory fashion.

D Tier: Heroes that will pretty much never do anything, really. This is the only tier of heroes you should generally avoid.

Explanations

S Tier: Wolfgang murders whoever made the mistake of laning against him; Aurelio acts like a bruiser, a carry and a pseudo-jungler able to reach any lane from mid.

A Tier: All solid picks. I don't actually like Kamaitachi in mid at all, but can't deny his bully potential along with Qube. Bunu Shan does nothing in mid, but is still well placed there so you can run one of the super-high-attacking ADCs. Lan is a murderess, pure and simple. Enidi, Crank and Deadfire are all solid, reliable picks.

B Tier: Situational or comp-specific picks. Frank, Gillis, Kid, Hass, Digo and Nihil are all notable as heroes who perform very well in general, but are better suited to other lanes; nonetheless, viable mid lane picks, particularly if you want to swap them between lanes for counterpick potential.

C Tier: Niels and Elemi are both picks that beg your opponent to gank mid over and over; Cubey is quite vulnerable as well due to its self-damage. Justice simply can't bully lane like the better mid lane picks can and is somewhat vulnerable in mid. Miki's only job is to join objective fights he shouldn't be able to, and mid lane usually gets to join them.

D Tier: Tiger Boy, Fatty White and Palulu are all heroes that don't use solo lane gold well; Palulu in particular is terrible in mid because you can literally gank her with zero risk. Kaka, meanwhile, continues to be terrible.

Drafting for Mid Lane

I tend to leave mid as a late pick so that I can take whoever will fit my comp best; I'll only pick earlier if I'm going for a double-buff strategy and need Dylan. There's a raft of solid A-tier picks who can slot into most comps as needed, so there's not much risk in leaving picks until late; Wolfgang is the only concern, so you might need to spend a second round ban on him if the opponent plays him.
v2.1 | Mid Laners

Aside from four of the new heroes all being available for mid, the biggest shift is Merisi rocketing to the top of the list. There are a few other movements around the place; note that mid lane, having such a large potential pool of heroes, is the most prone to Variants shifting power around.

S Tier: Foso lands here - again, she does everything you want a general-purpose mage to do while requiring no investment but welcoming it if you've got it. Merisi also jumps up to S tier - I now realise I grossly underestimated him before, and the new itemisation is also very good for him.

A Tier: Raven arrives, just as in Jungle - between his movement cards and straight-line initiation he can throw ganks at every lane while soaking solo lane gold. Hass jumps up to A tier mostly because he's better in mid than I thought - having access to squishier targets lets him generate more gold from Shadow Blade. Note that Crank, Deadfire, Kamaitachi and Qube all have the potential to jump to S tier if their better Variants are brought in.

B Tier: Matata and Qin Hu arrive; both are okay but not great. Cubey hops up a tier here as well - he still feels better in top due to being more isolated (and so taking less damage, allowing for better stat generation), but mid lane gives him a more dominant late game thanks to having a squishier opponent and higher chances of the jungler wandering by to eat Differentiation-a hits. Note that Frank in particular can jump into A tier in mid if his damage-dealing Variant is active since he's more likely to have two targets here for Fisticuffs.
v3.1 | Mid Laners

A lot of moving around based on updated thinking, but nothing mindblowing.

S Tier: Nothing changes. Nobody has made to a position of uncounterable strength besides these four.

A Tier: Frank hops up (he was always on the cusp), as does Manta, who I now recognise as being ideally suited to lane bullying. Felicity arrives in mid - I believe she's better in jungle or support, but still functions great in mid and just isn't the best use of solo lane gold. Enidi drops down to B tier since he does, in fact, get countered by being slapped in the face on the field and fights; Bunu Shan does the same due to being extremely vulnerable without support. Lan drops like a rock.

B Tier: Enidi and Bunu Shan come in - this is really where they belong, being situational/comp-specific picks. Elemi and Bariel hop up from C as their old ranking was based on ease of ganks which realistically isn't much worse than the mages; Justice follows suit, being worse in mid than top but functional. Fernan arrives, but is far better suited to top where he doesn't need to actively skirmish. Mihawk falls.

C Tier: Lan falls heavily down the table - I don't know what I was thinking, she's fundamentally comp-specific and also much better suited to top lane. Mihawk also drops here since he doesn't really perform any better than the situational mages while having truly awful cards. Palulu hops up because, while obviously a sitting duck, she's actually more able to survive the lane than a lot of mages (albeit with zero counter-kill potential) and can do decent work in the right comp. Niels drops down, Elemi hops up. Chen arrives, but can never activate his ship without it being immediately taken away again.

D Tier: Niels falls to D - he's so vulnerable in mid that you may as well be paying your opponent alimony. Palulu vacates her seat for him.

Drafting: While previously I tended to give mid counterpick priority in draft, top has now been given that honour. There are so many unique top lane counterpicks, as well as a vast hero pool up there, that keeping your options open matters a lot; mid also has a big pool but a lot of the heroes there are ones you build a comp around or that work better elsewhere.
Crank
On Crank's character model his horns curl upwards; on his character portrait they curl inwards. My immersion is RUINED.

Name: Crank

Position: Mid / Support

Role: Mage

Mastery choices:
Swap searches one of Crank's other cards to hand / Swap searches one of the target's cards to hand

Itemisation: Mage

Synergies: Peiniang Zhu (Debuff synergy), targeted assassins, Zealot (Spectral Weapon)

Counters: Deep Space, Kid, Multi-attackers, particularly Kamaitachi

Countered by: Wukong (debuff immunity), debuff removal

Summary: Debuff mage bringing inevitability (if the enemy team can't remove debuffs)

Analysis: Crank is a debuff-oriented mage whose main contribution is to apply Endless Vengeance to enemies hit by his attacks in a fight. Endless Vengeance is only applied if the attack hits an enemy that isn't already afflicted - in other words, Crank's attacks don't stack it - and causes the sufferer to take 25% of Crank's AP in damage every time they take an action. Note that as with most calculations, this is done on a snapshot basis - if Crank has a temporary AP buff (such as his own Spectral Weapon), the debuff will be correspondingly higher and continue to apply every round.

Importantly, this debuff provides an element of inevitability. This is the case not just because it causes unavoidable damage every round (which it does), but also because if an enemy dies while afflicted, the debuff's damage is applied to every enemy hero in the fight - including those that were already afflicted. This means that each enemy death creates a snowball effect, each causing its allies to take increasingly high damage. Note that as the entire debuff's damage is applied (rather than just a single instance) this becomes multiplicative - if the initial hero dies with 25% AP of debuff, a second hero who also had 25% AP debuff would now have 50%; if that hero died, each other hero would have 75% debuff minimum (25% from the first death, 50% from the second). Confused yet?

Cranks cards are generally supportive in nature; despite this, you're better off running him in mid than support simply because his entire kit is damage-oriented and based on his AP. You'll usually get more mileage out of him with solo lane gold than simply throwing him into bot lane, particularly as your ADC won't get any assistance from him in general. From the mid lane, Crank can fit into most comps (provided Wukong is banned and you don't want to play Felicity), providing you with damage support and some added inevitability to close out fights.

Cards:
Grant an ally 100% of Crank's AP for 10 rounds or until they next attack on the field, or act in a fight.

In a vacuum, a fairly underwhelming way of delivering an additional chunk of damage; if you're seeking to use it on the field your best bet is either to give the AP to a hero with a lot of damage amplification for their field attack (e.g. Lady Darkfire's Ignite or BaJie's Rocket Punch) or a hero who can turn the damage into gold (e.g. Hass' Shadow Blade). While it can also provide a spike of damage in a fight on heroes who specify target (e.g. Lubos), its best use in fights is to give it to a hero who can turn that AP into a full-fight benefit, like Zealot or Crank himself.

Give an enemy hero the Endless Vengeance debuff.

Absurdly expensive just to apply Crank's debuff to a specified target. You'll almost never want to play this at even close to full price; the only reason to do so is if you really need an edge in a teamfight or you'll get a huge amount of mileage from applying the debuff immediately to a hero (e.g. Deep Space, a heavily stacked Felyn).




Target an allied hero. Crank swaps places with them.

On its own, pretty useless; only really usable to put a heavily fed hero in range for an engage. Its main use is with masteries to provide a cheap single-card search effect - you'll want to use this to search for the target, since Crank has a 50% chance of giving you the virtually unplayable Oblivion. If running Crank in the support role (which you shouldn't really do), can allow you to get a surprise gank on bot lane.



Interactions:
Peiniang Zhu - Worth highlighting as the otherwise unimpressive support can function rather well paired with Crank, with Lightning Mark proccing on every tick of Endless Vengeance. Now in 3.1, with Peiniang Zhu ascendant, this can be a vicious comp setup.

Wukong - As always, Wukong shuts down Crank as a debuff mage.

Targeted attacks - Assassins who can pick off a debuffed target will allow you to quickly spread Endless Vengeance.

Deep Space - Deep Space wants to avoid damage for as long as possible; Crank can ensure this never happens, both removing all his stacks and preventing him from generating more. Of course, first you either have to hit him or dump half your phase's SP on one card...

Anti-synergy - Crank's debuff can cause some issues for other debuff-centric heroes, notably Felicity and Lady Deadfire. Don't pick them together.
v2.1 | Crank
Like a lot of heroes, doesn't get much from the new itemisation. The new Variant is phenomenal, however, so mid-lane Crank's stock rises a little.

Variant 1

Changed - Endless Vengeance deals 20% 12% of Crank's AP as damage.

Gained - If Crank attacks a target that already has the Endless Vengeance debuff, Crank procs the debuff with his attack.

It might sound like a nerf - the debuff is the entire reason you're taking Crank after all - but this Variant hugely improves Crank's reliability in fights. Have you ever had a teamfight where your Crank refused to spread his debuff around and instead just sat slapping a tank all fight? Of course you have, that's what he seems to do every fight. With this Variant you're no longer punished for irritating targeting RNG and instead get some bonus damage to help bring down that first target to spread the debuff all around. Note that this does make Crank weaker into zero tank teams due to a lack of any high Presence targets.
v3.1 | Crank
v3.1 Updates: Couple of tweaks to update for a shifting meta. Crank is fortunate that his job is important enough to not fall down the tier lists considering Felicity basically now does his job but better.

Item build: Mage. Crank will take any decent debuff-relevant items (once again, Terror Anthology is a winner), but otherwise just wants as much flat AP as you can give him since that's what his debuff works with.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing much. Oblivion's cost is painful, but not bad enough to burn a Focus on.

Funnelling: He's not worth tutoring, since of his three cards, one is terrible and another just tutors someone else. He probably doesn't want stats either unless you're working with his Variant, since vanilla Crank has a nasty tendency to sit beating on the same tank for the entire fight and accomplishing nothing.

Rejected gags:
I'm sure it's a magic wand of some kind, but from the moment I saw Crank's model I decided he was holding a giant toothbrush and I cannot unsee that no matter what I do.

Looking at his archive screen, I find myself overwhelmed with curiosity as to who dug an entire grave for their pet goldfish. And also who made a target dummy smaller than Crank himself.
Enidi
Proponents of modern pop music, particularly female artists, will say that 'sex sells'. Enidi is short, fat, somehow manages to be bald and have a bad haircut at the same time... and he's more popular than anyone. He's just that good.

Name: Enidi

Position: Mid

Role: Mage



Mastery choices:
The Finale requires 1 less token / The Finale requires 1 more token, but hits all enemy heroes

Itemisation: Mage

Synergies: Bunu Shan (lots of field attacks), Niels (AoE on AoE)

Counters: Deep Space, Zealot (AoE hits)

Countered by: None

Summary: Mage focussed on field attacks with some limited AoE in fights.

Analysis: Enidi is a mid-lane mage whose main function is to provide AoE in teamfights. While he doesn't have quite the same guaranteed output as Niels (who will always attack all targets), he's a much safer pick due to not having a crippling lack of armour or self-stun potential.

Enidi's mechanics require him to first deal damage on the field, which fortunately his cards are quite good at doing. Each time he attacks an enemy hero on the field, meanwhile, he gains a stack of Charisma (losing a stack each time he's hit, either on the field or in a fight). Once he gets into a fight, he then expends Charisma to add attack targets - for each stack of Charisma he expends, he attacks one more enemy (so with 1 Charisma stack he'll attack two targets). Usually this will mean 2-3 rounds of attacking all of most enemy heroes before reverting to a vanilla mage for the rest of the fight.

Thanks to his reduced need for support compared to the other main AoE attacker in the game (Niels), Enidi fits much more comfortably into a variety of comps. While fairly versatile, however, Enidi performs best when drafted alongside other heroes with a lot of attack cards - Felyn or Gang in bot lane, for instance, and Qube or Justice in top. Also note that while Enidi has a lot of attack cards, none of them are guaranteed to hit, so athletes with Field Hit match traits are generally favoured for playing him.

Incidentally, while I can't say for certain, I assume Enidi is named for prog rock band The Enid, who have had some moderate success since the 1970s. The Enid's supporters are referred to as 'the Enidi', which seems like rather a big coincidence...

Cards:
Attack all enemy heroes who have been hit by an attack this round.

At 3 SP this is pretty expensive; additionally, as you're dumping a lot of SP into hitting multiple targets instead of focussing attacks on one enemy, its main use is playing before an objective fight to chip down enemy health bars and generating extra Charisma. Note that to be valid targets, enemies need to have been hit with an attack, not just targeted for one.




Enidi gains 5 stacks of Charisma, then gains gold equal to 20 x his level. He then adds the same amount of gold to his bounty. Removed when played.

Fairly unusually this is a card which can be as big a detriment as it is a benefit; while 5 stacks of Charisma is nice, Enidi has plenty of ways to generate Charisma, and generating both gold and bounties can help your opponent to close a gold gap. It is free, however, so it can be used to generate 'emergency' Charisma if you're expecting (or starting) a fight and have no other means of getting it. Note that although the game doesn't bother to state this, you start with 1 copy of this card in your deck and generate an additional one at levels 6/11/16.

Target a hex (globally) and attack all monsters and enemy heroes within 1 hex. Enemy heroes that are within 1 hex but not actually in the targeted hex suffer 1 knockback, but take 25% less damage.

A slightly weird card, it has a lot of moving parts and most of them are fairly irrelevant. Its main use is for hitting enemies who haven't yet been hit for the purposes of Return Performance, due to its global effect, but it can also be useful for counter-jungling, especially if you've lost control of the jungle.



While in hand, gains 1 token every time you play another card. Can only be played with 5/6 tokens; when played, attack 3/5 enemy heroes.

A cheap and potent attack card with the obvious drawback of needing to stack tokens up to be able to play it. This generally isn't a problem though, as the kinds of heroes you'll tend to draft Enidi alongside (attack-oriented heroes) will usually have quite a few cheap cards available - and if you're playing smart you'll be setting yourself up with plenty of discounts and SP generators as well. For this reason, I recommend taking the mastery option which increases the token cost and effectiveness of this card, rather than the one which merely reduces the token requirement. Note that despite unclear wording, you can't stack more tokens on this card than are needed to play it (so you can't pile up 20 tokens on it and then re-cycle it to play it three times in a row).

Interactions:
Niels - Enidi plus Niels is a recipe for a lot of AoE. Add in a decent frontline, some shields, and ideally a targeted assassin, and you've got yourself a party.

Death in the field - A few more additions to Enidi-Niels can change a comp from a teamfight AoE machine to a field-murder one instead. Draft some kind of search effect to find Niels' Revelation, then throw in a couple of slap-happy heroes (Qube, Zealot, people like that) and you'll find yourself burning down squishies without ever needing to change screens.

AoE - A small number of heroes are particularly vulnerable to AoE - Zealot is the main one, but Kaka, Omaha, and to a lesser extent Deep Space, are also notable.

Stop poking me bro - While much less vulnerable than Niels is, Enidi still doesn't particularly appreciate being focussed - he's less likely to die, but will still be losing Charisma stacks at an upsetting rate. Leon can do a decent job of keeping his singing interspersed with yelps of mild pain.
v2.1 | Enidi
No massive changes. The Variant does make Enidi more swingy, though.

Variant 1

Changed - Enidi loses 1 2 stacks of Charisma when attacked.

Gained - Enidi gains 2.5% crit chance per stack of Charisma.

Pushes Enidi towards being a bit more feast-or-famine, rewarding you more for building up a lot of Charisma before fights and punishing you more for letting him get hit. In theory this hugely improves his damage output, particularly since mage gear rarely has much crit on it; in practice you'll probably lose most of your stacks to ganks anyway so your damage output winds up close to vanilla, concentrated into a couple of big bursts at the start of a fight. This does make Enidi much better in skirmishes and ganks, though, especially into single targets where vanilla Enidi gets nothing from his Charisma.
v3.1 | Enidi
v3.1 Updates: No major changes aside from Performance Max's picture being inexplicably broken in the guide and requiring me to re-upload an identical image to fix. Enidi drops in the tier lists simply because I overrated him before, but if anything he's gotten slightly stronger thanks to his designated slot as cleanup crew in an Alpha Strike comp.

Item build: Mage. No need to mess around, just throw as much AP on there as you can get and call it good. Note that he doesn't use on-hit effects as well as you'd think since he runs out of steam (i.e. stacks) fairly quickly in bigger fights; by the same token you may as well disregard defences on him since his performance will fall off no matter how you build him.

Reserve Tactics: There's an argument for running a Continuous Poke, but honestly unless you're just throwing Enidi in without a real comp behind him you're probably going to run out of SP before you run out of damage to throw around.

Funnelling: Tutoring, yes. Enidi's cards are all solid (even if Return Performance is pretty pricey), and The Finale in particular is phenomenally efficient for what it does, token requirements notwithstanding. Stats are more of a mixed bag, but giving him AP is good at least.

Rejected gags:
Enidi is not, in fact, bald. He just wears the top of a giant egg on his head like a hat.

Wait... tonsure... robe... is gospel music huge in whatever universe this game is set?
Lady Deadfire
If you're wondering, her theme song is just the Trogdor The Burninator song but with 'Trogdor' replaced by 'Deadfire'. Known edgelord.

Name: Lady Deadfire

Position: Mid / Support

Role: Mage

Mastery choices:
Gain an additional 1.5 AP and 38.5 health per level / 3 AP and 22.5 health per level [x2]

Itemisation: Mage

Synergies: Burst damage assassins (e.g. Lan)

Counters: Field-hitting squishies (e.g. Felyn, Enidi)

Countered by: Wukong (debuff reflection)


Summary: Debuff-oriented mage with strong, if unreliable, burst damage.

Analysis: Lady Deadfire is a mage whose gimmick is the application of the Dark Flame debuff. Dark Flame is consumed when the target receives a hit in a fight, causing the attack to deal 20/25% increased damage, stacking up to eight times. Those of you who know how to do basic maths will have quickly identified that this means a potential triple damage from a single hit. Stacks are applied on the field any time an enemy hero attacks Lady Deadfire with a card (2 stacks), whenever she damages an enemy hero (1 stack), and whenever an enemy hero moves by card effect (1 stack). Stacks are also applied in fights whenever an enemy attacks or damages Lady Deadfire (2 stacks).

As should hopefully be obvious, this can lead to some extremely substantial burst damage - triple effectiveness from a high damage crit can straight up one-shot squishies after all. More importantly however, Dark Flame will dramatically improve Lady Deadfire's damage output - not only does she automatically target the enemy with the most stacks, but her attacks don't remove Dark Flame. In other words, if you can avoid anyone else hitting a squishy with a bunch of stacks on them, Lady Deadfire will attack them every round with a massive damage multiplier - which typically results in a dead squishy.

Lady Deadfire is not without drawbacks however. Dark Flame, while potent, is removed on any damage (other than her own) - a low damage tank or support will use up the stacks just as an assassin would, but with much less effect. Furthermore, she has the misfortune of being melee, making her more likely to be targeted for attacks but without much in the way of defences to protect her.

Despite these hindrances, Lady Deadfire is a strong general-purpose pick who can perform well in a vacuum and who can excel when assisting specific heroes or countering enemy picks. So long as Wukong isn't available she can be safely blind picked, and will typically be an adequately effective mage at the minimum - with the potential for much more if you can manipulate Dark Flame successfully.

Cards:
Choose an enemy hero; transfer all other Dark Flame stacks to that hero. If total stacks are then less than 5, increase them to 5.

Quite expensive, and depending on how many stacks you've been able to spread up to this point, can actually result in a net loss of stacks. You'll only really want to play this to target a squishy if there are relatively few stacks on the enemy team; remember that if you're going to play this you should play it first so that you can then add more stacks on top of it.



Target an enemy hero within 3 hexes. They gain 3 stacks of Dark Flame. Lady Deadfire then attacks them, applying the damage increase from Dark Flame.

Contrasting with Flame Embrace, this should generally be your finisher - unlike other field attacks it applies Dark Flame (but doesn't consume it), allowing you to get a sizeable chunk of damage off. Thanks to the 3 hex range you can quite happily murder ADCs from the comfort of mid lane, which is usually your best use for this card.



Choose a hero and move them 1 hex. That hero then attacks all enemy heroes within 1 hex, applying a stack of Dark Flame to each.

A nice multi-purpose card with lots of different applications. The immediately obvious is to use it to group up and debuff enemies ready for a fight; remember that if you choose to move an enemy with this effect you'll add an additional stack to them. Since the attack comes from the target rather than Lady Deadfire it can also be used to take advantage of a very high AP number, whether friend or foe, which is particularly useful if Lady Deadfire is being played in support. You can also use this to isolate an individual target for a gank, though bear in mind that 2 SP is a relatively high cost for such an effect.

Interactions:
Burst-reliant heroes - Lady Deadfire is a great supporting hero for assassins like Lan, Lubos and Manta who rely on getting a lot of damage out very quickly; indeed, partnering with Deadfire is probably the only reason to even build Lubos as an assassin.

Cash-out - Running a source of AoE alongside Lady Deadfire such as Enidi or Niels will let you get big chunks of damage across multiple targets early on in a fight. While potentially less efficient over the course of a longer fight (as Lady Deadfire gets fewer attacks on stacked up targets), this is a good way to use up the debuffs and make sure they do a lot of damage rather than risking them being used up by a low damage tank.

Anti-synergy - By contrast, low damage early hits will use up the Dark Flame debuff without really adding much damage. Avoid picking Lady Deadfire alongside heroes like Reinhardt, Felyn or Hakuna since they'll prevent you from getting much value out of Dark Flame. You should especially avoid picking Crank (whose periodic damage will burn Dark Flame as quickly as it's applied) and Felicity (who'll dispel it without even getting the benefits).

Counter-picking - Thanks to applying stacks of Dark Flame whenever she's hit by enemy attacks, Lady Deadfire is a good pick into any hero you anticipate throwing around field attacks. Lady Deadfire is about the only thing that can reasonably counterpick Felyn in bot lane for example - she won't stop Felyn from getting strong, but she will ensure Felyn is extremely vulnerable whenever she enters a fight. With Felicity's arrival there's a new counter in town (but she'll be banned so the above still applies in practice).
v2.1 | Lady Deadfire
Variant makes solo lane Deadfire all the stronger while weakening support Deadfire. That's about it.

Variant 1

Removed - Dark Flame increases damage taken by the target by 20% per stack, max 8 stacks.

Gained - Dark Flame causes additional damage equal to 30% of Lady Deadfire's AP, max 6 stacks.

A fairly simple change - instead of amplifying anyone's damage, the damage is based on Deadfire's AP. This has simple results - good times if your Lady Deadfire has a lot of AP (i.e. is in mid), bad times if your Lady Deadfire has little AP (i.e. is in support). The damage output is actually pretty vicious if someone gets stacked and not attacked by others right away, so mid lane Deadfire is a terror in solo fights with this Variant. Deadfire also becomes much more consistent with this Variant in place since the damage dealt will be the same whether you proc it with a big hit or a small one.
v3.1 | Lady Deadfire
v3.1 Updates: Small changes to bring in Felicity's existence and highlight the improved consistency of her Variant (which pushes her close to S tier, incidentally).

Item build: Mage-Bruiser. AP is, of course, great on Deadfire as you'd expect from a mage; however, remember she's a melee and part of her kit requires her to take attacks to reapply her debuff. Unlike most mages she should pick up a reasonable amount of survivability alongside her damage, or at least avoid the glass cannon items which will make her fall over far too quickly. If her Variant is in place, on the other hand, go full glass and watch thing explode.

Reserve Tactics: Reckless Assault is amazing on Deadfire since you get two attacks from it and also trigger your passive twice; if you're running mid Deadfire into a squishy, RA into Ignite can pick up kills with surprising regularity. Avoid other poke cards, as they only add one stack of Dark Flame without getting any benefit from them.

Funnelling: Decent, but not breathtaking. Deadfire's cards are generally solid but a little pricey to be playing constantly. Similarly, while she's a solid user of bonus stats (particularly defensive ones), she's not as good as a dedicated funnel target. Unless, of course, her Variant is in effect (seriously, that Variant is really good).

Rejected gags:
Okay I know I talk a lot of smack about the boring, uninspired or stolen hero designs in this game, but I have to give a lot of props to whoever designed Deadfire - her lower half being an inverted brazier is a cool idea. I'm not sure she'd agree though, considering she had to have her legs amputated and her genitals remain ablaze at all times.
Lan
In her spare time Lan plays a lot of MMOs. For some reason the cycle of quest-kill-reward deeply appeals to her. It is a mystery[knowyourmeme.com].

Name: Lan

Position: Top / Mid

Role: Assassin

Mastery choices:
Gain 1.5% crit rate per level / Gain 20% crit damage when crit chance is over 100%

Itemisation: Crit Assassin

Synergies: Lady Deadfire (burst facilitation)

Counters: Squishies, especially Niels

Countered by: Heavy tanks, especially Peter and Bart; Gillis

Summary: Skirmish-oriented assassin with a lot of burst.

Analysis: Lan is an assassin distinguished both by her card mechanics and her burst. When she enters combat her first attack gains 50% crit chance; if it crits, she halves her total crit chance and attacks again. And again, and again, until she either fails to crit or an enemy dies. For obvious reasons, this makes her up-front damage some of the highest in the entire game.

Her card mechanics are also quite unique. She goes from Step A - choosing a target - to Step B, fighting them. If the target dies, she moves to Step C, gaining power, and restarting the cycle. While this series of cards takes time and a fair amount of SP, it also has a lot of power due to being global range; pick the right targets and you can snowball hard.

When itemising Lan, you need to go all in on crit chance and crit damage. The more crit chance you have, the more attacks you can chain together at the start of the fight - which is where all of Lan's power lies - and the more crit damage you have the more likely those attacks will be made to count. Note that Lan only has 125% base crit damage compared to most heroes' 150% - this is necessary because otherwise she would simply explode things too easily. She gets a 50% boost (to 175%) once all her Step C upgrades are completed.

However, don't misunderstand - Lan is not easy to play. She needs to be picked into an enemy team that she's likely to be able to assassinate - squishy laners are good targets, especially if Niels is in one them, while tanks are a no-go. Especially avoid Gillis, who entirely counters Lan. It's also useful if you have laners who like to skirmish and can follow up Lan's burst to secure kills - Bond, Ada, Lady Deadfire, and any high damage solo laners are good picks - but enemy targets are much more important. If Lan is able to secure her target kills she becomes a terrifying assassin; if she doesn't, she's basically useless.

To give you an idea of the kind of team you want to manipulate your opponents into picking, and what happens when they do, the below is an example of one of my Lan games:
Note that despite her kills she didn't actually top out the damage graph that hard - that's not her job. What she did was murder bot lane relentlessly, getting herself, her ADC and her jungler ahead simultaneously, winning the game indirectly.

Cards: [N.B. This is the only entry that I've used a different order of cards to the game's order, because the game's order is stupid. Or possibly just meant to read right-to-left.]

Choose an enemy hero to become Lan's target (global). Next Deployment Phase spawn Step B in hand. Removed when played.

Rather expensive considering on its own this does nothing. Once upgraded by Step C it will at least attack the enemy, but even then 2 SP is a lot to be paying; consider it a pre-payment for Step B. Remember that your target needs to die - that may mean targeting a tank support rather than the squishier ADC simply because you're more likely to be hitting them. Also remember to keep an eye on the jungle, because you might be able to catch the enemy jungler isolated.

Start a fight (global) involving Lan and all heroes within 1 hex of Lan's target. Lasts 3 rounds. If the target dies during the fight spawn Step C into hand in the next Deployment Phase; if not, put a copy of Step A in the discard. Removed when played.

The meat of the kit, it's a pretty standard initiation aside from being global - Lan can go for her target no matter where they are. Note that this doesn't mean she should - if it's possible to catch them alone, she should wait to do so. If you fail to secure the kill you're out 7 SP, so better to wait a few rounds to make sure of the kill.

Gain one of Lan's three upgrades, then spawn Step A in the draw pile. If Lan has all three upgrades, she gains 50% crit damage. Removed when played.

The payoff. The order you should take the upgrades in is as follows:
1. Step A spawns Step B into hand when played. This is extremely valuable for letting you take advantage of opportunities immediately - there's nothing worse than seeing a golden opportunity, only for it to pass because you had to wait 2 rounds for your next Deployment Phase.
2. Lan gains an additional 50% crit chance on her first attack in fights. With this upgrade you're guaranteed to get at least two attacks off provided you hit (which isn't guaranteed); it also makes you more likely to keep the chain going. Definitely the most valuable upgrade for fighting.
3. When you play Step A, Lan attacks her target immediately; his attack can crit. Not incredible, but nice for softening up the target prior to murdering it.
Note that with masteries, Lan gains crit damage with each upgrade rather than only when she finishes them all, so she's gaining power no matter which one you pick. Also bear in mind that after you've got all three Step C will no longer spawn - that doesn't mean you should stop using Steps A and B, though, because at this point it's almost a free kill.

Starts with 3 tokens and removes a token when played; remove when all three tokens are spent. Lan gains 50% crit chance for 3 rounds and searches her current Step card into hand.

Very handy for keeping the ball rolling, as well as for getting the crit together for those first couple of kills. You only get three uses, but that should be enough - make them count. Don't be afraid to use this even when you don't need the search functionality; securing the kills is the important thing.



Interactions:
Targets to avoid - Big tanks are a definite no-no for Lan to target. Peter and Bart are notable because they can shut her down in teamfights even if she successfully gets fed (though other tanks tend to just fall over). Gillis will entirely negate Lan by soaking her burst and then one-shotting her. Anna isn't quite as hard of a counter, but will still make it much harder to get the snowball rolling (and isn't as good on Lan's team as she is with other skirmishers since Lan is more about repeated hits than single big ones).

Lady Deadfire - Notable as Lan's best teammate; Lan attacks very early in rounds, so stacking a bunch of Dark Flame onto Lan's target can allow for a huge opening crit and a secured kill. She can also sometimes isolate a target with Flame Spread, which is helpful.

Justice - Relatively minor point, but it's notable that Lan doesn't end her opening crit chain until she kills someone. If Justice is on your team and in the fight, she'll sometimes execute whoever Lan is currently stabbing to death - Lan can then continue stabbing someone else without the chain being broken.
v2.1 | Lan
Some nice itemisation benefits from the crit itemisation and armour penetration added, but the real winner is the Variant which makes Lan much less swingy.

Variant 1

Removed - Lan deals 25% less crit damage.

Removed - Lan's first attack gains 50% crit and repeats each time it crits, reducing crit chance by half each time.

Gained - Lan gains 40% crit damage in the first round of fights.

Gained - Whenever Lan crits she immediately attacks again. Can only trigger once per round.

A big boost for Lan overall, she no longer loses virtually all of her efficacy if she whiffs her first swing. She's more reliant on external crit sources thanks to losing her native 50% crit chance on first attack, but once she's got some she can continue to put out big chunky damage every round in fights. Importantly this also removes Lan's crit damage nerf so she gets even more benefit from stacking crit now.
v3.1 | Lan
v3.1 Updates: Minor tweaks here and there. Most importantly, added a link to the opening gag to clarify the reason for the second sentence. I'm sure you were all desperate to understand.

Item build: Crit. Crit. More crit. Maybe add a little bit of crit damage if you're feeling saucy. Unlike a lot of heroes Lan benefits greatly from surpassing 100% crit - her attack chain halves her crit each time, so the more she has, the more likely she is to get big chunky chains off. Note that crit damage is arguably superior to crit chance when your athlete is weaker, as the chain will shut off as soon as you miss so you may as well make the first hit(s) count.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing special. You could, I suppose take a Teleporting for Support on your mid to help secure the early kills, but realistically if you're not able to Step B and more or less guarantee the kills, you picked her into the wrong comp.

Funnelling: No. Step A-B-C should self-search once you've got your first kill. Stats can bolster the crit chain, sure, but once you've exhausted that she's down to glass cannon swings. You could argue that bonus stats will keep her around to use those 100% crits you built towards, but given she's an assassin and builds glass cannon, it's unlikely to make a difference one way or another.

Rejected gags:
Okay, I like her aesthetic because of course I do, we've already established I have a type. But what's really impressive is the heterochromic contacts and individual eyebrow dyes. That's dedication to a look.

Wristblades are on the outside of the wrist on Reboot, but on the inside on Step B. Maybe that's what the upgrade does - reposition the blades so you're less likely to stab yourself in the hands.
Merisi
I'm not locked in here with you... you're locked in here with me!

Name: Merisi

Position: Top / Mid

Role: Tank / Fighter

Mastery choices:
Gain an additional 1.5 AP and 38.5 health per level / Gain an additional 3 AP and 22.5 health per level [x2]

Itemisation: Tank, usually with one Fighter item

Synergies: Multi-attackers, buffs

Counters: None

Countered by: Mihawk (anti-tank)

Summary: Lane bully tank who works well with buffs and does nothing without them.

Analysis: Merisi is a curious combination of tank stats with cards and passives that make him want to be a Fighter. He's very similar to Kamaitachi in that he gets a lot of free attacks in fights - whenever he takes damage in a fight he gains a stack of Boss, and at 4 stacks he gets a free attack on whoever last hit him. On the field instead of getting free attacks he instead stacks Boss by attacking or being attacked by cards, and at full stacks searches Intimidation into his hand from the deck.

The trouble with this kit is that while he gets a lot of attacks - either from his passive in fights or from his attack-heavy cards - he's a tank without all that much AP. Even with the bonus AP he gets via his cards, he's still slapping enemies with his scrawny little wet noodle arms, and so winds up in the awkward position of getting lots of attacks but doing nothing much with them. If this is rectified through the application of external buffs like Dylan's Red Powder or Beverly's Renovation he can become a pretty vicious lane bully who pushes lanes hard and beats down enemies in fights through sheer attrition; if it isn't, he just winds up being a brick wall.

As a result, while Merisi can still function as a tank either way, he's usually best picked into a team that has ways to buff him; alternatively, teams which have methods of capitalising on his additional attacks can find some success (e.g. drafting Kamaitachi and Peiniang Zhu alongside him). If you're not going to slot him into an appropriate team, however, you're better off running a more effective tank. Note that I generally recommend running him in mid - you're more likely to get two targets out of Intimidation, and more likely to match up into someone squishy enough for him to pick up solo kills later into the game. Fielded in top lane, he'll just sit there being a tank.

Cards:
Merisi attacks all enemy heroes in the same hex as him. For each hit he gains an extra stack of Boss and pushes once.

A decent, if overpriced, card for taking advantage of Merisi's lane bully nature; use this card to whittle your lane opponent down in conjunction with Intimidation, looking to force them out of lane so you can beat on their turret. Note this has slight anti-synergy with Fight in the Prison since the push effect makes it more likely you'll wind up fighting under a tower; also note that despite technically being AoE, you'll almost never get to hit more than one hero with this.

Gain 25 gold, then attack all enemy heroes within 2 hexes. Each hit deals 50% damage and adds a token to Fight in the Prison. Then search Fight in the Prison into your hand.

A raft of effects, but none of them are hugely impactful; the key to this card, much like Merisi's attacks, is to make up for their low impact by using them a lot. You'll search Intimidation into hand when Merisi hits 4 stacks of Boss, but not immediately - it'll come into your hand next Deployment Phase, so don't think you can chain together multiple uses of this card. As a result, when playing around Merisi you usually want to use small amounts of SP so as to frequently hit Deployment Phase and get Intimidation back.

Gains tokens via Intimidation. For each token, Merisi gains 8/16 AP and this card costs 1 less. When played, start a fight with all heroes within 1 hex of Merisi, 5 round duration. Is not discarded due to hand size limits.

The AP gained by this card isn't actually limited to the card itself and applies whether it's in hand or not (making you wonder why they tied it to the card rather than making it a passive effect like everyone else, but never mind). The card itself is rather restrictive due to its very short range, leaving it more suited to bullying your opponent out of lane rather than actually securing kills. Because of that you should basically never play it unless you've got max tokens to reduce the cost or your lane opponent is critically low on health.

Interactions:
Multi-attacks - As with many heroes, Merisi gets a lot of extra attacks and therefore has synergy and counter potential with all heroes that have similar effects.

Damage instances - Note that Merisi's passive works via damage instances in fights rather than simply attacks. Heroes which deal multiple instances of damage per hit (e.g. Felyn, Mihawk) will add multiple stacks from a single attack. It's entirely possible to have all four stacks added by a single attack (e.g. Felyn with an item that adds a damage effect firing at Merisi when he has Peniang Zhu's Lightning Mark on him).

Buffs - As noted above, Merisi gets a lot of swings, but lacks any power behind them. He uses AP buffs well, particularly because he has a tank's health pool and so should stick around for a while to make use of them.

Missingno - Very minor point, but Merisi's Boss proc in fights will only go through if the triggering hero is targetable. Digo, being untargetable while allies are alive, is capable of triggering the Boss proc and wasting the subsequent attack; the same thing can happen if an attacking unit triggers Boss but dies right after to something like Endless Vengeance or a Kamaitachi proc. Rarely matters, but worth knowing.
v2.1 | Merisi
Possibly the single biggest winner of the update overall, Merisi is an absolute nightmare with the new itemisation (Acceleration Coil in particular). His Variant is also fantastic. Definitely pick-or-ban material, and finally gives us a real counter to Felyn. I should also add that I underestimated him in the first version of the guide - he should probably have been A-tier before and is definitely S-tier now.

Variant 1

Changed - When Merisi's Boss attack triggers in fights, the bonus attack ignores 30 shreds 10 armour from the target.

Just incredible. Merisi is not a burst hero, he doesn't care about penetrating armour on single hits. He's a tank who you stack with a few bonus AP sources so he can whittle down enemies with repeated hits. The 10 armour may not be a lot, but it lasts for the entire fight and in larger fights will proc multiple times per round even in the absence of multi-hitters.
v3.1 | Merisi
v3.1 Updates: No changes. Still amazed I gave him an awful tier listing before.

Item build: Tank (one damage item). You really want a single good damage item on Merisi to take advantage of his free attacks - Acceleration Coil is obviously great, but Ghost Claw is also fantastic, and failing that any of the solid single damage items (or even bruiser items) will do.

Reserve Tactics: Nothin'. You could make an argument for running an Initiation card to help out your jungler when he passes, but I'd avoid it. Probably a better choice would be to take Focus on your support to strip out the copies of My Hood from your deck - they really aren't very good.

Funnelling: Tutoring, no. My Hood is low impact and overcosted, Fight in the Prison is sticky, and you'll be hard pressed to have a Deployment Phase where Intimidation doesn't show up. He's a great repository for bonus stats though, since he gets extra attacks and should be building armour to stretch any bonus health further.

Rejected gags:
The more I look at Merisi's moustache, the more I feel like he's a hardcore medieval reimagining of the guy from the Pringles tube.

All of Merisi's cards and effects would be more fitting if instead of having a weird prison guard motif, he was just an agoraphobe with severe anger management issues.
Mihawk
The secret of my power? No, it's not magic, nor is it my faith in the lord. It's my tiny fuggen piano! - Mihawk

Name: Mihawk

Position: Top / Mid

Role: Mage

Mastery choices:
Soul Flame costs 2 less / Soul Flame doesn't lose tokens when discarded

Deal 2% additional pure damage in the field / Deal 3% additional pure damage in fights

Itemisation: Mage / Fighter

Synergies: Justice, Bond (complementary damage)

Counters: High health targets

Countered by: None

Summary: Mage who deals true damage based on current health.

Analysis: Mihawk is a curious hero who has a pretty straightforward effect in fights, but weirdly over-complicated cards. In general, his thing is %current health true damage; on the field his harass deals half of its normal damage but an extra 8/10% current health as true damage, while in fights he deals his full damage plus 15/18% current health true damage.

This positions Mihawk rather uniquely as a purely anti-tank and anti-fighter pick. His preferred targets are tanks, since he can not only chip down their high health pools but also ignores their usually high armour; Fighters, with their larger health pools, are also good targets. As a backline mage, Mihawk tends to pick up a fair amount of AP on top of this, giving him a decent amount of punch for finishing off low health targets as well.

However, due to his damage being based on enemy current health, he can struggle without some other damage sources on his team to follow up. He also doesn't really do a lot against squishy teams, since if you disregard his bonus true damage he's otherwise entirely vanilla in fights. As a result, he should be regarded specifically as a counterpick to high durability teams rather than a general purpose pick.

As an additional note - all of Mihawk's cards use tokens. Tokens are accrued for each round a card is in hand, and expended at various rates. It's frankly an awkward system that doesn't really make any sense with such a small card pool, but it is what it is.

Cards:
A tremendously underwhelming film with inexplicably high box office receipts
While there are at least 8 tokens on this card, all your Initiation cards cost 1 more, but Mihawk joins the fight irrespective of distance. If he does so, 8 tokens are removed from this card and it's discarded. No tokens lost when discarded.

A rather awkward way of having Mihawk join fights, essentially costing 1 SP for an effect you don't deliberately trigger. This is particularly peculiar because Mihawk isn't all that good a skirmisher. Having said that, you can play this card for free to discard it early, so you're not forced to pay the cost if you don't want to.

Attack an enemy hero within 1 hex. The attack deals an additional 10% current health damage (+1% for each token). All allies are then healed for 50% of the damage dealt, with excess healing becoming a shield. When played or discarded, loses half its tokens.

The only card you really care about getting tokens; unfortunately due to losing half its tokens on discard there's a functional upper limit to how many you can reasonably accrue. This prevents it from being a fully fledged nuke and instead relegates it to the role of fairly expensive team heal; nonetheless, this is still quite a useful tool for topping up your team immediately before an objective fight.

Cost is reduced by the number of tokens on this card. When played, remove all tokens from this card and add the same number to Mihawk's other cards in hand. Loses all tokens when discarded (but not with masteries).

Again an unnecessarily complicated and awkward way of adding more tokens to Mihawk's other cards. If you really want to use Drain The Soul as a nuke (and it is hypothetically possible to instakill with it, albeit with an entire game's worth of prep), this is the way to do it. Other than boosting your Drain The Soul damage, though, this card really doesn't do much; while Avatar's effect can occasionally be useful, you'll almost never use it enough to need to boost its token numbers. Needless to say, this effect isn't valuable enough to be worth spending SP on, so only play this card if you've got at least 8 tokens built up.

Interactions:
Nothing particularly noteworthy that wasn't already covered elsewhere.
v2.1 | Mihawk
No particular changes aside from a pretty garbage Variant.

Variant 1

Removed - Mihawk's harass only deals 50% damage but also deals 8% of the target's current health as true damage.

Gained - At the beginning of each round, if you have none of Mihawk's hero cards in hand, draw one.

Really not a good Variant. Losing the true damage harass doesn't really do much other than weaken his ability to bully tank lanes (which itself is something he can only do with a big athlete gap); meanwhile, you're guaranteed that your hand will always contain at least one of Mihawk's cards, which would be good if they weren't mostly kinda trash. This Variant drops an already niche pick even further into the hole. It does at least make Drain The Soul one-shots more feasible.
v3.1 | Mihawk
v3.1 Updates: Adjusted his preferred role, but nothing else. Really you don't care whether it's top or mid, if you're playing Mihawk you send him wherever the tank is.

Item build: Mage. He has no mechanics to incentivize you to do anything else, especially since his base stats are squishy so you won't get much mileage if you try to build him tank to keep his true damage around longer.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing. You could take Patient Waiting or similar to keep his cards in hand to accrue tokens, if you really want to spend half your hand capacity on cards you're specifically not playing.

Funnelling: No. Just no.

Rejected gags:
It's taken me until the 3.1 update to realise that with the religious motif and tiny piano, he's probably connected to Enidi. I am ashamed. He might also be connected to Cubey given the similarity between Drain the Soul and Drain the Life, but that's a stretch.

Mihawk actually looks kinda simian in his card art, especially Soul Flame. Given Wukong and Bond exist... is Mihawk the missing link?

That room on the archive screen is why you don't go with the lowest bidder when sourcing stained glass windows.
Niels
Okay, this time we can't be accused of stealing designs. Floating mage, face hidden by a helmet, throws a lot of lightning AoE around. This is entirely original, right guys? R-right?[leagueoflegends.fandom.com] - The dev team, apparently

Name: Niels

Position: Mid / Bot

Role: Mage

Mastery choices:
Revelation is discarded when triggered but damage increases by 75% / Revelation damage increases by 15%

Itemisation: Mage

Synergies: Shields (anti-stun)

Counters: Zealot, Deep Space (AoE)

Countered by: Assassins, ganks, Leon, basically anything that can hit him

Summary: Glass cannon AoE mage with a penchant for self-stuns.

Analysis: Niels is about as glass cannon as this game gets. He has extremely high damage output potential because in fights every attack Niels makes targets every single enemy in the fight; he stuns himself after each attack, though this can be mitigated by keeping him shielded (as shielded units can't be stunned). On the other hand, Niels is one of the only heroes in the game with 0 base armour (the others being Frank, who gets huge amounts of health, and Nihil, who gains armour over time).

These effects render Niels potent but extremely unreliable. While his attacks are AoE, if at any point he attacks while unshielded he'll stun himself, losing his next attack; this effectively means his damage output is halved whenever he fights without a shield. More importantly, however, his 0 armour makes him incredibly vulnerable to incoming damage, both in fights (which at very least will remove his shield) and in lane (where he's vulnerable both to harass and to ganks).

As a result, Niels should only be played with a team built around him. He should have at least one source of shields in the field (Palulu most notably as her Traveler's Blessing lasts through fights if not broken); he should also have at least one high Presence tank to soak hits, reducing the risk of him eating attacks with his 0 armour. You should also avoid picking him into any team which includes target-selection heroes like Lubos, Xiangxi Ke and Nihil, since they'll almost always wind up targeting (and killing) him. Don't pick him with Leon unbanned unless you like playing a four man game.

Probably better picked into bot with a full tank support to keep him alive, as picking him into mid is just asking for ganks (though he can function into tanks and bruisers). Blocker is likely your best support since he's a tank that can also shield Niels; Peter is another good pick. Palulu can work but is a bit risky; you could also take her mid if you don't mind losing out on synergy with someone like Enidi.

Cards:
Can't be played. While in hand, if an ally hits an enemy with an attack on the field, Niels immediately attacks the same target for 50% damage.

An effective force-multiplier card, Revelation costs you nothing but a hand slot and adds a nice chunk of extra damage to all your attacking cards. This doesn't have much of an effect with standard low-grade poke cards, but effects which provide multiple attacks for low SP costs (such as Zealot's Code: Assimilation or basically anything Enidi does) can become even more potent. Note you should always take the mastery giving 15% increased damage rather than the alternative, since the main use-case for this card is alongside a lot of other damaging cards; so long as you get two hits off, more damage will be dealt (2x 65% vs 1x 125%).

Target an allied hero. Until the end of the next fight, if Niels fights, that hero will also fight. Removed when played.

While for most heroes this kind of effect would be used to create lopsided fights for ganking purposes, for Niels it's very much the opposite - he's not a good skirmisher (the more targets he's hitting the better he is), and he's vulnerable enough in fights to not want to risk it. Instead, the main use for this card is to provide Niels with some limited protection against enemy attacks - target a tank and he'll have some measure of defence if ganked. It's often not enough, but it's something. Note that you'll usually want to play this even if you don't think you'll be ganked simply to get it out of your deck to make room for better cards.

Niels attacks five times, with each attack targeting a random enemy turret, hero or monster.

Although on the face of it this is an efficient damaging card (five attacks is a lot), in practice it's fairly underwhelming. Random targeting hurts, but what hurts far more is the tendency to waste attacks on monsters or high health turrets, neither of which is overly impactful. It does at least provide some minor counterjungling, which is better than nothing.



Interactions:
Shields - As noted, any kind of shield is very welcome to avoid Niels stunning himself mid-fight.

Enidi - A good pairing, Niels bot plus Enidi mid can allow for a huge amount of AoE in fights and (thanks to Revelation) a lot of damage on the field too. It is, however, extremely vulnerable to ganks (Enidi doesn't do particularly well when ganked either, after all), so be cautious which teams you pick this into.

Buffs - Since he targets all enemies, Niels is a good target for any buff effects you happen to have available. Note however that he's not actually a good user of bonus health - you might think it helps to keep him safe, but realistically he's too squishy to live through many attacks regardless of being buffed or not, and you're getting less team effective health as a result of buffing someone with no armour.
v2.1 | Niels
A big loser from the update, Niels gained nothing from the new itemisation, is vulnerable to both Raven and Foso, and his new Variant is terrible. Doesn't shift on the tier lists, though, because his draft priority doesn't change - he remains an extremely niche pick you'll only want if you're carefully managing both your team and your enemy's.

Variant 1

Gained - Niels' attacks deal 40 + 20% of Niels' AP x Number of Targets damage.

This change makes Niels' attacks stronger whenever there are more than five enemy targets on the field, making him more of a counter to summon-based teams... in theory. In practice it's a massive nerf because the majority of the fights you'll see will have fewer than five targets, so unless it's VERY early game (for the 40 base damage to matter) he'll be flailing weakly. Considering Niels is an absolute glass cannon that you only pick for his great AoE damage output, and considering that most summons will die in one or two hits anyway, this is going to be a nerf, or at most a sidegrade, in the vast majority of circumstances. Even if the enemy does draft a lot of summons you'll be picking Foso into them anyway. Ick.
v3.1 | Niels
v3.1 Updates: Fixed a bunch of errors in the entry, plus updated his position to reflect him being better played in bot (pretty sure my original guide I was just trying to crowbar stuff into mid because it felt too sparse).

Item build: AoE Mage. You want all the AP, all the time; disregard defences, if you get hit you're dead. Dissonance is amazing on him though since you get an entire AoE attack off it.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing, unless you want to bring a Focus to strip out the Bounds more easily. You could even ditch Smite since it underperforms most of the time anyway.

Funnelling: AP only. You might want to tutor him occasionally to try to dig out Revelation, but you're at way too high a risk of hitting Bound in most circumstances. As noted in the article, giving him bonus health is generally a waste of time and resources.

Rejected gags:
You know, having just written the Mihawk entry, I'm starting to think there's a monkey conspiracy going on here. And I know what you're going to say - Niels has no monkey-like traits. OR DOES HE[bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net]?!
Wolfgang
Trundlekaiser es numero uno[knowyourmeme.com]. Hue hue hue.

Name: Wolfgang

Position: Top / Mid

Role: Fighter

Mastery choices:
If Devouring Soul hits, it applies Absorb one additional time / If Devouring Soul hits add one additional token to Chain of War


Gain an additional 1.5 AP and 38.5 max health per level / Gain an additional 3 AP and 22.5 max health per level

Chain of War costs 1 more but gains a token every 12 rounds instead of every 20 / If Haunting Coil hits a hero, search Chain of War into your hand

Itemisation: Fighter

Synergies: None

Counters: None

Countered by: Burst damage, Hass (buff stealing), Wolfgang (debuff reflection)

Summary: Lane bullying monster of a Fighter-mage.

Analysis: Wolfgang is the premier solo killer in the entire game. There is no hero in the game more suited to destroying his lane opponent. Picking Wolfgang into lane (mostly mid lane) is a declaration of intent to solo kill the enemy mid repeatedly.

This comes as a result of Wolfgang's effect, an obnoxiously potent buff/debuff called Absorb. Whenever Wolfgang hits an enemy he steals 10% of their AP and 15 armour from them until the end of the round (or the end of the fight, in a fight). If you're not good with numbers it might not immediately come across how powerful that is, so let's review. You're reducing the enemy's AP by 10%. You're gaining the same amount of AP, so that's a 20% (of the enemy's AP) swing already. You're also reducing their armour, so your future attacks will do substantially more damage. And you're also stealing that armour, so your opponent's future attacks will do less damage. In other words, one single attack in a 1v1 situation can swing damage outputs by a good 30-40%.

As a direct result of this, nothing can really fight Wolfgang in a 1v1; the main hope is simply that you can outlive the fight duration. Even against tanks, who have high health and low AP (so not a lot to steal), the armour debuff alone will often be enough to seal their fate if the fight lasts long enough. The only way to actually beat Wolfgang in a 1v1 is to hit him so hard he dies before he can steal many stats.

In teamfights, meanwhile, Wolfgang is a solid but not amazing performer. His armour shred becomes the central part of his kit in these instances, with every attack he lands making his entire team deal more damage to the target. In longer fights such as objective fights he can scale up to the point of dominance, but it takes a while.

As a result of this disgustingly powerful effect, Wolfgang is possibly the best pick for a mid laner in the game. Wukong and Hass can both counter him, so make sure they're banned; once they are, Wolfgang is a supremely safe pick who will perform well both in lane and in teamfights and will secure at least a couple of solo kills in all but the most unfavoured of lanes.

Cards:
Wolfgang heals himself for 30% of his max health, with excess healing becoming a shield. He then attacks all enemies within 1 hex and adds 2 tokens to Chain of War.

The setup before you play Chain of War, Devouring Soul is necessary to get enough tokens onto the aforementioned card to start the solo kill train rolling. Happily, far from being a tax, this card is strong in its own right - it heals Wolfgang up, and can also pick up the initial stack of Absorb from the target to speed up the inevitable resolution of the fight. If you're lucky you'll even grab a few stats from a passing jungler at the same time.

Target an enemy hero within 1 hex; start a fight with them (and only them), lasting as many rounds as this card has tokens. Gains 1 token every 20 rounds.

This is how Wolfgang secures his solo kills - by making damn sure nobody else can get involved. Bear in mind that the token generation passively on this card is far too small to secure any kills; to rectify this you'll need to play Devouring Soul once or twice to stack it up. Once you have, however, Chain of War will essentially become '3 SP; kill an enemy hero'. Wolfgang's just that good.

Target an enemy hero or monster within 2 hexes and attack it. If you hit a hero, deal an additional 20% of their current health and apply two stacks of Absorb; if you hit a monster, kill it and earn triple gold.

Very expensive to be used for the purposes of stealing jungle (though still acceptable if you're not looking for a kill). Its main uses are to soften up a target you don't think you can kill quickly enough yet (in the early game), and to search out Chain of War for a free kill (in the late game). Both are very valid uses, though the combination of the two cards is a bit pricey so keep in mind you won't be playing too much else if you use them.

Interactions:
Buff/debuff counters - As with all debuff-users, Wukong can counter Wolfgang pretty hard (although amusingly, by debuffing Wolfgang's team rather than Wolfgang himself); meanwhile, as his Absorb also counts as a buff, Hass can mess him up pretty hard.
v2.1 | Wolfgang
No particular gains from the itemisation; his Variants are kinda weird but mostly just mess with his playstyle rather than making him more or less powerful. Was strong, is still strong.

Variant 1

Changed - Absorption effect on-hit absorbs 10% 8% of the target's AP and 15 10 of their armour for the rest of the round/fight.

Gained - Whenever Wolfgang triggers Absorption he gains 1% of the target's AP and 15 max health permanently.

Generally something of a sidegrade, this Variant pushes you to get Wolfgang into as many fights as possible so you can stack up the permanent buff. Given Wolfgang is nasty in skirmishes and has his own potentially endless fight card this isn't bad, but when you get right down to it, is surplus to requirements - you don't get enough stats from the procs to make Wolfgang a powerhouse without absorbing, and at the end of the day you're drafting Wolfgang to repeatedly solo kill his lane opponent rather than mess around with non-fatal skirmishes.

Variant 2

Removed - Absorption effect.

Gained - Whenever an attack or harass hits (on field or in fights), Wolfgang gains 3% of the target's AP, 50 max health and 1 armour permanently.

Like Variant 1, this pushes you to fight with Wolfgang as much as possible; unlike Variant 1, it pretty much forces you to do so. With no Absorption effect Wolfgang no longer has absolute inevitability on his targets (or at least, very little of it), but on the other hand, his stats can get silly very quickly with this Variant. In particular, if you happen to have an athlete with a lot of poke Tactics cards and/or a nice field hit Match Trait, pairing Wolfgang up with search effects can make something of a monster - albeit one hampered by only getting a single swing per round.
v3.1 | Wolfgang
v3.1 Updates: No changes. Wolfgang is still the mid lane murder machine.

Item build: Mage-bruiser. Debatable, particularly dependent on any Variants that might be in play. The more AP you get early, the sooner you can get to solo killing things, but on the other hand, with 8+ tokens on Chain of War that AP becomes redundant; after that point you really want defences to survive the higher damage coming in from teamfights. For base Variant Wolfgang I find one heavy AP item early (say, Blue Monolith) followed by a couple of bruiser items (e.g. Golden Ticket, Aluminum Lamp) works best. The more long-term your Variant, the more you'll want to lean into the health payoff items like Gravity Converter.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing, really. Wolfgang's kit is a self-contained set of all the tools you need to ruin a mid laner's day. Having said that, Watch This is a great niche pick since Watch This + Chain of War will become net 1 SP for a kill and a Rethink in hand.

Funnelling: Tutoring Wolfgang's cards can work, since the sooner Devouring Soul stacks up the sooner Chain of War becomes a free kill (and after that point, you're just searching for gold for your mid). He really doesn't need any more stats than he's already generating, though.

Rejected gags:
Huh, he has a cross on his chest. I guess Mihawk and Enidi have an edgelord buddy.

Now I just want to know what he keeps in that little toolbox on his archive screen. Or just how he manages to bend down to open it.
v2.1 | Matata
Damn. I made the dumb Lion King reference in my original guide and the devs just doubled down on me. I can't even be mad.

Name: Matata

Position: Top / Jungle / Mid

Role: Utility-tank

Mastery Choices: Gain 60 max hp after triggering Combat Rhythm / When triggering Combat Rhythm during fights inflict 5 additional armour reduction
[N.B. This was 2 armour reduction initially. The tooltip now says 5 additional armour reduction, but playtesting seems to result in 45 total... sometimes. And other times, just the base 30. Really no idea what's going on there.]

Gain an additional 2.25 AP and 30 max health per level / gain an additional 3 AP and 22.5 max health per level

Itemisation: Tank, optionally with one damage item.

Synergies: Health stacking, Raven (armour shred)

Counters: Nothing in particular

Countered by: Nothing really; minor counters from Wukong (debuffs) and Mihawk (health stack)

Summary: Decent tank with a focus on pseudo-lifesteal and armour shredding

Analysis: Unlike most of the tanks in the game, who either sit in a niche (Bart, Peter etc.) or have stacking mechanics to make themselves into threats (Merisi, Frank etc.), Matata is very much an all-rounder. He doesn't tend to excel and doesn't have the tools to take over games, but instead has a nice one-two punch of utility to help him survive on the frontline while boosting his team's damage. Note that the game classes him as a Fighter, which just doesn't work with his kit - he needs high health to proc his passive and he has no effects which boost his own damage specifically, so you're far better off building him defensively so that he can stay up on the frontline.

The survivability part of Matata's kit lies in fights; whenever he attacks an enemy unit, if their current health is lower than Matata's he applies a stack of his self-titled debuff to them. The Matata debuff works like a kind of team-wide lifesteal effect - whenever that target takes damage from any source Matata heals for 7.5% of the damage dealt per stack, to a max of 3 stacks per hero. While this can add up to a decent amount of healing over the course of a fight, it's important to keep the caveats in mind - he has no way of getting additional attacks in fights and so is stacking only once per round at most, and then only if he has more health than the enemy. Furthermore, those stacks do nothing if they're thrown onto a target that then isn't getting hit. These conditions mean Matata's debuff is much more of a minor supplement than a genuine survival tool; nonetheless it can buy him an extra round or two of survival, which can make the difference in close teamfights.

The main part of Matata's kit, however, is the Combat Rhythm mechanic. This is very simple - every time Matata attacks or plays a card (including field harass, though this isn't stated in the description) he gains a stack of Combat Rhythm. Once he has three stacks, his next card on the field gains an additional effect, or his next attack in a fight will shred 30 armour from the target. The Combat Rhythm stacks are then removed and he can start again. Generally speaking the Combat Rhythm effects on his cards aren't particularly impressive (which is good, because stacking on the field is a pain); in fights, though, 30 armour reduction for the entire fight is quite substantial, especially when targeting a squishy. Frankly the armour shred is Matata's biggest selling point, so try not to draft him into heavy tanks who won't care too much about it.

Overall, Matata is solid but due to not shining in any particular area he will almost always be outclassed by one hero or another in any role he tries to fill. If you want a heavy investment tank you'll get more value from Merisi and co; if you want a low investment tank you're better off with Bart; if you want an initiation tank you'll want Reinhardt; if you want a tank with some punch you'll want Wukong or Frank. On the other hand, a lack of strengths also winds up being a lack of weaknesses - if the tanks you're looking for are banned out or you want to double up he'll always be an acceptable pick... just not your first choice.

Cards:
Initiate a 3-round fight with all heroes within 2 hexes of Matata; enemy towers don't join. With Combat Rhythm, you gain an extra 1 2 rounds of duration and Matata enters the fight with three stacks of Combat Rhythm.

An acceptable but not overly powerful initiation tool. Notably when played with Combat Rhythm the card's effects become identical to Gillis' Enchanting Invasion (which is pretty strong); starting with full stacks is nice since it lets you lead with some armour shred to secure kills. Unfortunately that shred is a little disjointed with the wide initiation radius since you're more likely to catch stray enemies and so have more difficulty in focussing the shredded target down. In v3.1 you can now get a 5 round fight with Combat Rhythm, letting Matata mimic his jungler brother's main selling point.

Move 1 hex and, if you land on a monster, kill it and gain an extra stack of Combat Rhythm. With Combat Rhythm you instead get a 2 hex movement range and kill all monsters within 1 hexes of your landing spot.

Really quite unimpressive, primarily because it doesn't provide the bonus gold/XP that similar cards usually do. This restricts its utility - you'll often find there's little point clearing your own jungle any faster unless you're already winning lanes, so you'll only really want this for counter-jungling, and 2 SP is absurdly overpriced for just a single monster. You'll pretty much only ever use this with Combat Rhythm for wiping an entire side of the jungle, or to position for a better Warcry initiation.

Attack an enemy hero within 1 hex. With Combat Rhythm, if the target is in Matata's hex he shreds 15 armour until the target next dies, or if it isn't, he knocks them back 3 hexes.

Definitely Matata's best Combat Rhythm dump, this is the entire reason you want to run Matata in a solo lane rather than the jungle - shredding armour semi-permanently is very, very valuable for just 1 SP, and you'll almost never be sharing a hex with an enemy from the jungle. Can also be used to slap enemies around to position for an initiation. Note that you can't use Pounce to position for either effect unless you're specifically at 2 Combat Rhythm stacks since it'll consume them if you have three even if you're not using either empowered effect.

Interactions:
Clearly an Odin reference: Matata and Raven work very nicely together in mid and jungle respectively; Raven greatly enjoys the single-target armour shred Matata provides and brings the damage to kill targets, while Matata can also pull him in from pretty much anywhere in the jungle so he can reset his Fly in the Night cost. Probably the only time you'll specifically want Matata in your draft is to pair with Raven.

Monkey Business: Wukong's debuff reflection has some very odd effects with Matata. The armour shred will of course reflect onto your team, so you probably don't want to draft Matata into him; on the other hand, applying the Matata debuff to Wukong will also reflect that onto your team. While that sounds like it's two negatives, in actuality it's still Matata that gets the healing from the debuff - it's just that now he's healing from the damage the enemy team does to your team instead. The shred is much more impactful, so you'll want to avoid the matchup, but it's pretty funny that it works that way.
v3.1 | Matata
v3.1 Updates: A few changes here and there to reflect some buffs that got thrown his way at some point or other. He's still pretty much mid-tier, not least because the Combat Rhythm mechanic is really hard to properly engage with via his cards, but he's better than he used to be.

Item build: Pure tank. You can optionally throw in a Bruiser item if you really feel the need, but remember that his main selling points are his healing (which he only gets if he has more health than whoever he's hitting) and armour shred (which does the same thing no matter what your stats are). You're usually better off bulking him up and letting him block for the people behind him.

Reserve Tactics: Movement cards and/or Teleporting for Support are more impactful on him than others because of the awkwardness around Combat Rhythm, which actively discourages you from using Pounce to reposition a lot of the time. Not sure it's worth burning a Tactics slot on such a milquetoast pick though.

Funnelling: No. His cards don't really merit tutoring, and the only reason to throw stats at him is if he's the only tank on your team (which, if you're paying attention, he really isn't good enough to be).

Rejected gags:
You might think it's a bit unfair that Matata gets an axe while Hakuna's stuck just lugging a tree around. But think about it - how do you think that tree got cut down in the first place?

The order I'm writing these updates in really is making some things jump out at me. Like Matata and Wolfgang both being members of the 'I have a skull on my crotch for no adequately explained reason' club.
Bot Laners
Tier list:

Key
S Tier: Heroes that can be safely blind-picked, with no real counters, strong cards and which counter some heroes; or heroes that have the potential to completely take over a game in the right comp

A Tier: Solid picks which have few counters, if any, and which can generally perform at least adequately in any given situation while having strong potential to excel, but lack some key tool(s) for being a complete package; or heroes that can become extremely powerful with the right comp and setup

B Tier: Heroes who are very situational, only working well with a great setup and/or against specific enemy heroes or comps (e.g. counterpicks); or heroes that can become extremely powerful, but are heavily countered by too many heroes to feasibly ban out for; or heroes that are good in fights but have terrible cards, or vice versa.

C Tier: Heroes that generally don't perform amazingly; they lack the tools to excel, meaning the best they can hope for is to perform their role in a satisfactory fashion.

D Tier: Heroes that will pretty much never do anything, really. This is the only tier of heroes you should generally avoid.

Explanations

S Tier: All heroes that can easily take over a game. Felyn is filthy, while BaJie is the single best general-purpose ADC pick.

A Tier: Both solid picks, do their job but don't usually run away with things.

B Tier: Acceptable picks, but usually somewhat risky or specialised. Bond stands out as being very close to A tier but falling down due to the relative weakness of his cards for laning.

C Tier: Bariel still doesn't know what he wants to be. Deep Space and Omaha both have a lot of damage but just aren't reliable enough compared to the high tier picks.

D Tier: There are no D tier ADCs - they can all do the ADC job, some just do it better than others.

Drafting for Bot Lane

If I'm red side and want to play through bot lane, ADC-support duo is what I pick. Remember that a lot of ADCs have a single support that tends to work particularly well with them - Felyn and Blocker, BaJie and Acedia, Bunu Shan and Beverly, etc. - and pick the pair if you're focussing on them. If you're looking for a different lane to make the plays you can leave ADC to later.
v2.1 | Bot Laners

No huge shifts - aside from the new arrivals not a lot changes. Foso's appearance does make Omaha and Deep Space slightly weaker, but they're already in C tier and realistically it's hard for an ADC to be useless enough to make it to D.

S Tier: No surprises that Foso once again lands in S. If there was a tier above S, Felyn would enter it if Acceleration Coil is in your version.

A Tier: Quinn arrives here - she's strong and has the potential to explode teamfights, but when you get right down to it she's just a weaker version of BaJie. Note Elemi can jump into S tier depending on her Variant and your comp preferences - she was already pretty close.
v3.1 | Bot Laners

A lot of movement, mostly to rationalise things.

S Tier: Bunu Shan drops to A. The other three stay - they are the pinnacle of bot lane picks. There's finally a counter to Felyn, but given you can just ban her out it's not really a big deal.

A Tier: Digo drops out of A tier - he fits better into the situational picks set. Bunu Shan falls to A tier as well; she's still strong, but probably requires a bit too much comp thought to be a true S tier. Gang jumps up to join them, mostly thanks to the combination of extremely high damage and fitting nicely into newly-arrived comps.

B Tier: Digo lands. Shougong Lei and Omaha both hop up to B tier - neither is a particular stand-out, but they can do the job effectively enough to be valid, viable picks. Everyone else stays put.

C Tier: Bariel stays put in C tier - he's fine as a jungler if you need a damage boost for your comp, but in bot lane you're just putting your ADC into the frontline for no real reason. Everyone else has moved away for various reasons. Fernan arrives to fill the gap - solid hero, but there's absolutely no reason to put him in bot.

D Tier: Congratulations to Deep Space for finally becoming my first D-tier ADC. Hypothetically can do a lot of damage, in practice gets shut down by half the heroes in the game. Leon and Felicity being added both give him pure targeted counterpicks that put the final nail in his coffin.
Ada
I'm supposed to make a bunch of emo tryhard jokes about her makeup and sniper rifle and all, but I keep getting hung up on how boss her blue highlights look.

Name: Ada

Position: Bot Lane

Role: ADC

Mastery choices:
Shield Generator's shield increases from 33% to 66% of Ada's AP / Multiple Shot attacks one additional target

Itemisation: ADC

Synergies: Skirmishers, particularly Lan

Counters: None

Countered by: Gillis, Anna

Summary: Skirmish-oriented ADC.

Analysis: Ada is an ADC built for skirmishing thanks to her signature ability. Whenever you fight, if Ada isn't involved, she makes herself involved - she intervenes by getting an attack in the first round of combat. While a single attack might not seem particularly impactful, Ada's cards are all designed to enhance her first shot in a fight - which works when she's intervening and can provide a substantial swing in your favour.

Ada's other benefit is that she's extremely low maintenance - all of her modification cards are used automatically, so the only input she needs is 2 SP three times in the game to play her Mod Upgrade. What's more, each time you do so it removes the relevant mod from the deck, making your draws more reliable.

Although Ada's first attack is quite punchy, gaining a variety of effects, once it's expended she becomes entirely vanilla. This means that if you're picking her, you need to be doing so either with, or against, a team oriented around fighting as often as possible. If you aren't getting value out of her first shot you'd have been better off picking literally any other ADC in the game (except Deep Space). As a result, Ada is a very situational pick, but one who can be effective in the right setup (or to counter one).

Cards:
Doesn't exist naturally in the deck; one copy is added to your discard pile each time Ada activates an equipment. When played, choose one of Ada's modifications to gain permanently, removing its card from your deck. This card is removed when played.

Thins your deck out and, more importantly, lets Ada reliably provide whatever utility you're most needing. Personally I tend to favour Concussion Grenade > Multiple Shot > Shield Generator, as I find the stun to be the most useful, but this comes down to personal preference and the state of the game currently. Note that one of the early masteries reduces this card's cost from 4 to 2 - never play Ada if you don't have this mastery because 4 SP for this card is daylight robbery. Note also that Ada gets 15/30% increased damage on her first shot for having 2/3 of her mods active - this includes both effects from this card and from your hand.

Can't be played. While in hand, Ada's first attack during a fight targets 1/2 additional targets, then discards this card.

Straightforward, just lets Ada hit multiple enemies on the first round. I would recommend always taking this upgrade after Concussion Grenade, since just damaging multiple targets is usually less valuable than stunning one.





Can't be played. While in hand, Ada's first attack during a fight gives all of her allies a shield for 33/66% of her AP, then discards this card.

Can be handy if you're playing from behind; this is generally more reliable than Concussion Grenade but with a lower cap (the shield is worth more than stunning a tank, but less than stunning a carry). Multiple Shot, on the other hand, raises Concussion Grenade's reliability a fair bit and has no interaction with this card.



Can't be played. While in hand, Ada's first attack during a fight stuns her target(s), then discards this card.

The most impactful option, particularly for small, short skirmishes where missing a round of combat can swing the overall outcome considerably. Note that the attack needs to hit for the stun to go through. The combination of Multiple Shot and Concussion Grenade can also give Ada quite a big impact on midgame objective fights.



Interactions:
Gillis - Gillis is very strong into Ada because of her first round invulnerability - she can soak Ada's intervention quite happily and, while she'll be stunned for the second round, she retains the AP bonus until she gets to attack. Furthermore, Ada (as an ADC) will have a lot of AP built up which will really fuel Gillis' burst.

Lan - Lan wants to fight as often as possible and her entire effectiveness hinges on whether she secures kills. Ada gives Lan the freedom to gank lanes other than bot lane by contributing a chunk of additional damage, helping to secure the early kills that get the snowball rolling. They also feel quite thematically matched, if that matters to you.

Anna - A soft counter to Ada directly, but a stronger counter to the theme behind her. Ada exists as ADC support for skirmish comps, while Anna acts as a counter to skirmishing in general; Ada gets a big shot on the first round, Anna gives protection in the first round. Won't break your comp, but will make it much harder to play. Note Anna can also give a small benefit to Ada since Rosemary will boost her AoE first shot.

Wukong - As always, the debuff-reflector will eat your Concussive Shot and spit it back at you. Unreliable and not a very hard counter, but still makes life harder for Ada. Note this becomes a much greater inconvenience if Ada's Variant is in play.
v2.1 | Ada
Like most of the ADCs, Ada doesn't really gain anything from the new itemisation aside from a few crit options. Her new Variant is an upgrade, but not really enough to shift her up the list.

Variant 1

Removed - If you have 2/3 of Ada's bonus effects active, she gains 15%/30% AP for her first attack.

Gained - Ada's bonus attack deals 35% reduced damage.

Gained - When Ada first hits with an attack (which doesn't have to be her first attack) she applies Weakness Mark to the targets hit. This increases their damage taken by 35% (increased by 10%/20% for having 2/3 bonuses active) until the end of the round.

A notable buff - while this does strip some of the direct damage out of Ada's supporting attack, that really didn't matter all that much unless she got hugely fed. With this Variant she can more effectively work with skirmish-oriented playstyles thanks to providing a damage boost to whoever's fighting, regardless of her own stats.
v3.1 | Ada
v3.1 Updates: No major changes. Added interactions for Anna and Wukong since together they can really ruin Ada's day.

Item build: ADC. No reason to deviate - Multiple Shot is only hitting a max of three targets and only once per round, so you probably shouldn't burn an ADC's item slot on something like Armor-Piercing Round unless you're really desperate to get the pen from somewhere.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing.

Funnelling: No more so than any other ADC. Some niche value in searching Mod Upgrade to add reliability in both support and draws.

Rejected gags:
I assume the sniper theme is to suggest that Ada is assisting in fights by firing off a shot from across the map. Given the terrain assumed to be in place, this means Ada is apparently rocking a Farsight[perfectdark.fandom.com]. Not the crossover I was expecting to see.
BaJie
Disco Stu says remember kids - never go back to a firework after it's been lit. That's how you get both your arms blown off and replaced by badass rocket fists. - Disco Stu BaJie

Name: BaJie

Position: Bot

Role: ADC

Mastery choices:
Cache provides an extra 5 gold per card played / Cache gains 30 gold when it enters your hand

Once Cache has earned 400 gold, BaJie gains 5% crit damage / For each 100 gold Cache earns, BaJie gains 0.5% crit chance (max 5%)

Rocket Punch becomes global and deals 1 bonus damage to towers / Rocket Punch cost reduces by 1

Itemisation: ADC (prioritise crit)

Synergies: Acedia (gold generation), Dylan (Strengthening Potion for crit), Gillis (extra gold for Charm)

Counters: None

Countered by: Bart (crit immunity)

Summary: Extremely high damage crit-oriented ADC.

Analysis: BaJie is one of the hardest hitting heroes in the game; only Deep Space can really contest him for dealing the most damage with a single attack. This is an effect of his passive, which gives him bonus crit chance and crit damage from the gold he generates - by the end of a game he can easily break 1k AP and 300% crit damage (with 100% crit chance, of course) to throw big chunky hits around.

Of course, BaJie brings no real utility to his team; fortunately, utility isn't something you care about in the ADC role. He does wind up being a bit less reliable than other comparable heroes like Elemi simply because his attacks, while very hard-hitting, are also singular; a missed attack matters a lot when that attack could all but one-shot a carry. He also lacks agency in lane, needing support to do anything but farm and harass. None of these issues are deal breakers, but they're worth bearing in mind.

Despite having a huge amount of crit from his passive (to the point of being able to reach 100% crit without items with a few kills under his belt), you still want to itemise around crit chance where possible. This is because his passive ramps up granted crit damage once he passes 150% crit chance, providing 1.6% crit damage per 100 gold once he reaches that point. That said, also note that his huge multiplier means he gets substantial benefit from bonus AP.

BaJie is, therefore, a good general pick for an ADC; he hits harder than Elemi (but less reliably), than Felyn (but can't bully lane), and can contest Deep Space on the damage front (but without risk). He's not perfect, but still one of the best ADCs around simply because of his sheer damage potential - and when a team comp is built around him, he can wind up looking like this:






Cards:
Choose and draw one card in your discard pile.

Very expensive at 2 SP for what amounts to a single card draw, this is nonetheless situationally good simply for allowing you the freedom to grab any card from your discard instead of randomly drawing. This can be extremely helpful for getting off specific combos or spamming powerful cards. It's also literally all of BaJie's utility, so you may as well use it so he doesn't feel bad about himself.



Unplayable. While in hand, whenever you play another card, BaJie gains 25 gold.

Solid, effective card. It does nothing in isolation, of course, and can clog your hand up (especially since there's two copies in your deck), but giving your ADC free money would be good even if BaJie didn't gain additional bonuses from gold.




Attack an enemy hero or turret within 3 hexes. If turret, deal 4 damage. If hero, the attack can crit and if it does, search Cache to your hand.

The effect isn't bad, but the cost is absurd for what it does - 4 SP for what amounts to a single attack is outrageously expensive. Even if you get the crit on a hero you're unlikely to kill them since BaJie lacks any other poke tools (and you're spending half your SP on this card), and the tower damage is of limited use with no other push tools. Avoid this card until ultra-late when you can use it to get kills on any target that drops moderately low (and even then look for better uses for the SP first).

Interactions:
Gold generation - BaJie benefits even more than other heroes from gold, so gold generation effects such as Acedia's Alarm Clock or Kid's Amnesty are extremely potent. Similarly, thanks to Cache he can generate bonus gold, making Gillis' Charm useful in the other direction.

Bart - As with all crit-oriented heroes, Bart will shut BaJie down for a while.
v2.1 | BaJie
Nothing much changes. All his Variants are sidegrades, and the itemisation is also sidegrade-y. Still super strong.

Variant 1

Removed - BaJie gains 0.3% crit damage per 100 gold, doubled when crit chance is above 100%.

Changed - BaJie gains 1% 2.5% crit damage for each 1% of crit chance over 150% 100%.

Basically this Variant just moves BaJie's power around during the game - he gains no crit damage early game until he hits his 100% crit chance target, but gains much more thereafter. This basically means he hits weaker early game and harder in the hyper-late game. The thing is though, he already doesn't do much early game, and he already hits like a truck made of razor blades and acid in the late game, so in real terms nothing much happens.

Variant 2

Removed - BaJie gains 0.3% crit damage per 100 gold, doubled when crit chance is above 100%.

Changed - BaJie gains 1% 0.5% crit chance per 100 gold.

Changed - BaJie gains 1% 8% crit damage for each 1% of crit chance over 150% 100%.

Similar story with this Variant. Here you'll be looking to get as much crit from your itemisation as possible, as early as possible - you don't get as much crit chance from gold. Once you hit your 100% crit target, though, his crit damage absolutely skyrockets, leading to comically high numbers. 1,000% crit damage is entirely possible (though at that point you're just playing with overkill numbers).
v3.1 | BaJie
v3.1 Updates: Minor tweaks. Nothing else changes. Felicity can mess him up pretty hard due to his high AP numbers in the later game, but doesn't even approach a counter since by the time the debuff kills him your team will consist of one shell-shocked carry in a crater.

Item build: Crit. Lots of crit.[makeagif.com] BaJie sits with Lan in the exclusive 'we don't care if we go over 100% crit' club, since he gains crit damage from his crit chance exceeding 100%. If you're the nervous type you can throw him a GA effect as third item.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing really worthwhile. If you're desperate for something you can throw in something from the Patient Waiting family to keep Cache around for longer, but it's not usually worth it.

Funnelling: Tutoring effects can work to find Cache and get it stacked early - it's not worth consistently tutoring unless you have no better options, but grabbing it once or twice early can get you to that 400 gold mark to maximise the free crit. Not worth throwing him stats though - he's going to be very squishy with or without them, and he really shouldn't need any more damage than he has.

Rejected gags:
If you're wondering about the hair, it's the result of an unfortunate explosion at the JPEG factory.

Random disco theme, afro, rocket hands, all understandable. But why does he have a pig tail?
Bariel
Bariel has that mirror thing on his head because he moonlights as a gynaecologist. Into the breach indeed.

Name: Bariel

Position: Jungle / Bot

Role: ADC

Mastery choices:
Add 1 Charge to the deck; Charge grants 8 AP / Gain 3.75 AP and 17 max health per level

Final Shot gives 100% extra monster gold / Final Shot deals 1 extra damage to turrets

Gain 20% crit damage while shielded / Gain 20% more shields (from his passive, not from everywhere - total of 55% damage dealt)


Itemisation: ADC

Synergies: Anything that can shield him, particularly Palulu

Counters: Soft counter to assassins due to being relatively durable

Countered by: Bart (crit immunity)

Summary: Short-ranged, bulky ADC let down by his cards.

Analysis: Bariel is intended to be the game's only short-ranged ADC, and has a raft of passive effects to make this work. He has 20 bonus AP right from the start of the game; his first attack of a fight gains 60% crit chance; gains an additional 40% crit chance on any attack made while he's got a shield; and he gains a shield whenever he deals damage, based on the damage dealt.

On paper, this array of passives makes for a pretty strong hero. In practice, he's passably strong, but let down by his card set. Unfortunately his cards are set up to try to make him into a skirmisher and tower pusher, which he really isn't - he doesn't have the tools to really secure kills in short fights, nor to push especially well.

What he does do well is act as a relatively durable ADC thanks to his melee-tier armour and generated shields. While he still doesn't really want to soak, he can take a hit or two without folding. This makes him quite well suited to facing off against assassins like Nihil and Xiangxi Ke who try to target low health enemies.

Note that Bariel does also make for a pretty passable jungler. He's not top tier by any stretch of the imagination, but he can fill the role adequately enough thanks to his shields and easily found initiation card; he can fit well into comps that require a substantial damage source out of the jungle.

Cards:
Fires in a fan-shaped cone, hitting all monsters and turrets in the area.

Doesn't exist in Bariel's deck, but is instead generated by his cards. Also quite an underwhelming card, particularly for laning; while it can deal chip damage to towers, its awkward range makes that tricky, so you're better off using it for situational counter-jungling where possible. Note that this doesn't hit enemy heroes.




Deal damage to enemy heroes within 1 hex in one direction; hits cause additional knockback and spawn a Final Shot in hand.

Bariel's main tool for trying (and failing) to make him a strong tower pusher. Low grade poke for 2 SP is quite steep, knockback notwithstanding; it also has anti-synergy with Into The Breach since using this card to deal chip damage prior to fighting means you'll also need Charge to chase them down, and may well wind up under their tower to boot. Meh.



Bariel gains 150 shield and moves 1 hex. You then search Into The Breach into your hand.

Really quite a nothing card; the shield doesn't scale at all, and the movement is generally low impact. Its main benefit is ensuring you can search out Into The Breach readily, but given that that's also pretty underwhelming that's not saying much. The main use for this is ensuring you go into any given fight with a shield, even if it is tiny; I would recommend you play it any time it's in your hand, too, because it's removed on play (and so you'll draw something less useless in the future).
Note that you can get this card to give +8 AP via mastery choices - this is an acceptable option but losing even that small amount of health per level can be dangerous for a frontline squishy like him. I favour the safer course, but either is valid.

Standard initiation card with 1/1 range and 3 round duration. After the fight, add a Final Shot to your hand and a Charge to your deck.

Really unimpressive card since it's functionally identical to an Initiation card which spawns some also-underwhelming cards alongside it. Bariel does have some synergy with short fights, since he gets bonus crit on his first shot and will generally start with a shield for favourable trades, but that's not really enough to salvage this card.



Interactions:
Shields - Obviously, given Bariel's passive, he favours getting shielded wherever possible; unfortunately his own self-shield card is pretty lacklustre. His mid-fight shields are decent enough, but they won't stand up to a hit from anyone with any damage behind them, so you'll find more success with him if you either find him a much better pre-fight shield or pair him with someone (i.e. Palulu or Blocker) who can set him up mid-fight.

Bart - Being crit-reliant, he struggles to get through Bart, and while his self-shields mean he's not going to kill himself he can find his shields vanishing even as he generates them, lowering his damage output even more.
v2.1 | Bariel
Again no real itemisation boosts, but both Variants are buffs in real terms, so his stock rises a little.

Variant 1

Gained - Doubles self-applied shields when Bariel already has a shield.

Doesn't really do much, since Bariel's self-applied shields are fairly low impact outside of small skirmishes. Having said that, this is just a straight up buff, so you can't complain.

Variant 2

Gained - Bariel gains an additional 20 base AP.

Changed - Bariel gains 60% 80% crit chance for his first attack.

Changed - Bariel gains 40% 20% crit chance while he has a shield.

Gained - Bariel gains 30% crit damage while he has a shield.

Makes Bariel a little more swingy by shifting his power from crit chance into crit damage when shielded. In theory this pushes you into itemising more crit on him; in practice you'd be building some crit items anyway, so all you really see is higher damage potential at the cost of lower reliability.
v3.1 | Bariel
v3.1 Updates: No major changes, but updated the text around the 8 AP Charge mastery - I was a little too hard on it before. Still better in the jungle, and still outclassed by Bond even there.

Item build: ADC. Take care around your crit itemisation since the amount of crit you actually have can vary wildly in fights.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing.

Funnelling: Tutoring no, his cards aren't worth it. As good a stat-receiver as any other ADC though, particularly since as a melee he's more likely to eat hits and so need some extra health.

Rejected gags:
Nope, can't top the original gag. At least I crack myself up.
Bunu Shan
Hm? Fight? Meh. Maybe later. - Bunu Shan

Name: Bunu Shan

Position: Mid / Bot

Role: ADC

Mastery choices: Serenity Training removes 2 additional stacks of Serenity / After Awakening, each attack in a fight deals 5% more damage.
[x2]

Itemisation: General ADC itemisation. AP and crit both good.

Synergies: Any hero with substantial Attack cards or AP buffs. Particularly good with Beverly, Kamaitachi, Zealot, Felyn, Enidi.

Counters: Nothing particularly.

Countered by: Lane bullies like Felyn, Wolfgang etc.; High tempo lane pushing heroes like Felyn, Gang, Justice.

Summary: Very late-game carry, terrible early and incredible late.

Analysis: The premier late-game ADC of the game, Bunu Shan is exceptionally powerful... eventually. They start the game with 70 stacks of the Serenity debuff, which doesn't actually do anything in itself other than track progress. They lose one stack of Serenity per round, plus an additional one each time an ally hits with an attack on the field - note that this does not include hits in fights, nor does it include harassment. Eventually, once all 70 stacks are gone, Bunu Shan Awakens, gaining two effects - firstly, their attack in fights becomes a triple attack, with the three hits dealing 50%, 70% and 90% of their AP respectively (or 60%, 80% and 100% with masteries); and additionally, they gain a bonus 5 AP per round (7 with masteries). They also replace their underwhelming Serenity Training cards with more powerful ones.

As I would hope is obvious, you want Bunu Shan to Awaken as soon as possible, both to get them nuking in fights and also to start their AP gain going. Despite this, it's generally not a good idea to take the Serenity Training boost option for their masteries - with only two copies in the deck your actual speed increase from these masteries is marginal compared to the rest of your team who have presumably been picked to assist with Awakening, and the additional damage is fairly substantial in a fight (30% AP per round). You should instead look to Awaken Bunu Shan through picking a synergistic team around them - you don't need every role to carry a lot of Attack cards, but at least one source of multiple hits is a good idea. Beverly works particularly well because her buffs both keep Bunu Shan alive and are amplified by the absurd power of the triple attack, while her Renovation counts as five hits on its own.

As an aside, one other benefit to running Bunu Shan is they're quite light on your deck - they only have two cards at any given time, making other heroes' cards more likely to come up. While your deck will still be fattened by Tactics cards and the like, they are still slightly better for running with heroes that like to play their cards as often as possible.

While mid-lane Bunu Shan is an option, it's generally not a good idea; without a support they're extremely vulnerable to ganks and are unable to really contribute all that much to objective fights. The one reason you'd want to do this is specifically to take Felyn bot instead, so that you can abuse her crazy amount of field attacks to Awaken Bunu Shan without having to resort to Felyn top.

There aren't really any hard counters to Bunu Shan, which is what makes them such a good bot lane pick; if facing them, your best bet is to try to build a high tempo team that can either snowball to victory before they Awaken, or at least to have such a big lead by that point that even the Awakening power boost isn't enough to save them. It is possible to target and assassinate them, either within or prior to fights, but as always with assassinations is a bit unreliable and will backfire horribly when it fails. This also generally isn't an option in the Final Fight.

As a final note, according to the ever-reliable Google Translate, Bunu Shan translates to 'Don't delete it' in simplified Chinese.

Cards:
Target an enemy within 1 hex of Bunu Shan and Attack them. Removed after Awakening.

A fairly unimpressive card, functionally identical to the Poke Tactic card. Despite being extremely underwhelming, you'll still probably want to play it most of the time simply to work towards Awakening.





Target an enemy within 1 hex of Bunu Shan and Attack them for 50% damage; if it hits, repeat this effect with 50% more damage, with a maximum of 3 hits. Added to the draw pile after Awakening.

Can deal up to 300% AP damage - which, when backed by Bunu Shan's Awakened AP, is a lot. Still unlikely to secure solo kills if only because you need to succeed on three hit rolls to get there, but can be useful to soften targets up before important fights.



Give an allied hero the Wrath buff, giving them 30% of Bunu Shan's AP for 5 rounds. Added to draw pile after Awakening.

The real power card of Bunu Shan's deck, this can easily add 300+ AP to a hero and (unlike many similar effects) it isn't removed at the end of fights or after hitting. It can, of course, be applied to Bunu Shan themselves to really stack up the damage; alternatively, apply it to a high crit or multi-attacking hero for best results. Beware using this against Hass unless you like him getting huge damage for some reason. Maybe you're a masochist, I don't know.

Interactions:
Beverly - Notable for providing heavy buffs which are amplified by the multi-attack, and also for having the five-stack Renovation hits.

Zealot - Assimilation is a 1-cost card giving three hits, which is pretty fantastic; Zealot is also a great target for Wrath late game if you don't want to put all your eggs in the Bunu Shan basket.

Kamaitachi - Has multiple attacking cards, and also attacks via a passive which can add stacks even while you're doing other things. Another good target for Wrath late game, particularly as the triple attack gives three stacks of his passive.

Felyn - An absurd number of attacking cards. If you need the achievement for Awakening Bunu Shan quickly, run them mid, run Felyn-Blocker bot lane, and you'll usually see an Awakening by round 40.

Enidi - Similarly to Felyn, simply brings a huge number of attack cards to the table.
v2.1 | Bunu Shan
All sidegrade all the time.

Variant 1

Changed - Serenity has 70 90 stacks.

Changed - When Awakened, Bunu Shan gains 5 10 AP per round and attacks three times, dealing 50/70/90% 60/80/100% damage with each attack.

A very slight downgrade because if you're smart (or more accurately, if you're listening to me) you'll be taking the bonus damage per hit masteries; adding flat 5%s to the numbers means less when they're higher already. The increase in stack count does mean it's much harder to Awaken Bunu Shan without a comp with a heavy focus on field attacks; realistically, though, you weren't drafting them outside of a field attack comp anyway, so no huge change.

Variant 2

Changed - Serenity has 70 55 stacks.

Changed - When Awakened, Bunu Shan gains 5 3 AP per round

A very slight upgrade here, on the other hand. You get less AP per round once Awakened, yes, but your Awakened attacks lose none of their scaling and a potential 15 rounds of +3 AP means you'll only be losing a little by the late game. A small price to pay for having an actual hero in lane in the midgame rather than a glorified summon.
v3.1 | Bunu Shan
v3.1 Updates: No major changes aside from fixing an error on Outburst. Still scary.

Item build: Mage/Multi-Hitter. There isn't a huge amount of overlap between the two archetypes, so mostly you'll find yourself itemising Mage items; a GA effect is useful if there's one around since losing Bunu Shan means losing half your team's damage. Avoid Dissonance though, as you only get the first attack of your combo.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing much. There's an argument to be made for running Poke cards and the like, but honestly you should have plenty of field attacks from your draft.

Funnelling: Tutoring is probably a pass; Bunu Shan's cards aren't bad, but they aren't flexible enough to spam. Bonus health can be appreciated since they have a mage's stat growth rather than an ADC's and so are slightly more chunky already, but the AP is probably unnecessary given how much you get from Awakening.

Rejected gags:
Why are Bunu Shan's hands so huge? What is up with those dice? Why are they apparently a cyclops, or at least become one when Awakened? Why, after putting so much effort into waking up, are they so cranky when they do? Devs, I have questions.

Bunu Shan gets a little upset when their teammates ask them to wake up. They get much more annoyed if they are subsequently asked to grab a brush and put a little makeup.
Deep Space
The sole survivor of the war against the Nibblonians[futurama.fandom.com], Deep Space has now learned that the best defence is a good offence - ideally mounted on an interplanetary spacecraft.

Name: Deep Space

Position: Bot

Role: ADC

Mastery choices:
Missile deals 80 more damage / Missile deals damage equal to Deep Space's level x10

If Volley gets at least one kill it generates 6 SP / Precision Airstrike generates 1 more missile, and the Fully Armed buff from playing Missile grants extra shielding equal to Deep Space's level x10

Itemisation: ADC

Synergies: High Presence tanks, Shields

Counters: None

Countered by: Persistent non-targeted damage (Crank, Big Foot), AoE (Niels), assassins

Summary: Risky ADC with very high damage potential.

Analysis: The definition of high risk/high reward, Deep Space is defined by his Full Firepower passive. He enters fights with two stacks (plus one per Precision Airstrike played), and gains an additional stack at the end of each round he doesn't take damage. He gains AP equal to 4x the round number (with masteries) for each stack, but loses a stack each time he takes damage.

The eagle-eyed amongst you (or more accurately, basically anyone) can see that this gives Deep Space some extremely high damage potential. Even just going into an early objective fight at round 30 he's going to be packing a minimum of 300 bonus AP from his two base stacks; going into a Final Fight at, say, round 80, with one additional stack from Precision Airstrike would net a total of 1200 bonus AP, with another 400 coming in each round he goes without taking damage.

The problem, of course, is taking damage. Whenever Deep Space takes damage in a fight he loses a stack - and if he drops to 0 stacks, he's basically vanilla. This makes it critical that you keep him from taking damage at all costs. If you can manage it, he'll put out damage surpassing even heavy duty carries like Bunu Shan; fail and he'll wallow in mediocrity.

Deep Space does come with a few tools to help keep himself stable. He has 1 less Presence than other heroes naturally, making him less likely to be targeted; he also gains the Fully Armed buff when he plays a Missile card, giving him a decent-sized shield going into the next fight. Neither of these is enough on its own, however, so it's strongly recommended that you draft at least one actual tank alongside him, ideally two, and build Presence on them wherever possible. It can also help to give him additional shielding outside of fights - shielded damage doesn't count as damage taken and so won't cost stacks.

Overall, Deep Space isn't worth the risk in my opinion - he can be very strong, but his peak isn't all that much higher than other ADCs while bringing with it the potential for disaster from just a couple of unfortunate attack targets.

With two new heroes arriving in v3.1 which can just select him as a target and then ensure he gets no stacks for the entire fight, Deep Space is in an even worse state than before. Don't bother.

Cards:
Target an enemy hero (global) and attack all heroes in that hex. If you hit, spawn a Missile card in hand and gain an extra stack of Full Firepower.

A tad expensive for just a single attack, though the extra stack of Full Firepower is nice. The gain of an additional missile is of limited use - you'll generally be saving them up for volley - but better than nothing. Note that the tooltip incorrectly suggests you gain a stack of 'Extra Magazine'. This buff doesn't exist and is in fact a mislabelling of Full Firepower - presumably an oversight.


Spawn two additional Missile cards in hand, then fire them all at random targets.

Phenomenally expensive, the only real way to justify playing this card is if you've got the SP refund mastery and can manipulate it into giving you a kill. Due to the random targeting you can't really guarantee anything (unless you can force enemies into the same hex for some reason), but otherwise it's just too pricey to be worth it. Having said that, if you stack a lot of Missile cards up - we're talking 10+ - then the shield can give you a lot of security going into a fight.

Target an enemy hero (global); they take true damage equal to Deep Space's level x 25. Deep Space then gains a stack of Fully Armed. Can only be played once per round, can't be discarded, doesn't count towards the hand limit, and is removed when played.

Individually, Missile is quite unimpressive. While the damage ignores armour, it isn't really enough to do anything more than poke down a target, while the Fully Armed shield won't survive a hit from anything with a little AP, making it borderline useless. Aside from being a global poke tool for securing kills or prepping for a fight, its main use is to be unloaded in huge quantities via Volley in order to get a lot of Fully Armed stacks up, thus going into a fight with a huge shield to preserve your Full Firepower stacks.

Interactions:
Frontline - As noted above, tanks are incredibly useful for Deep Space; since he needs to avoid taking damage to maintain his stacks, every little helps to make sure he's not the one taking the heat. Ideally you'll be running two tanks in your comp (e.g. Bart top and Peter support).

Debuff damage - Any source of non-targeted damage will utterly cripple Deep Space. Crank is the most notable hero to apply this, but Big Foot's debuff can also work - with these applied, even if nobody attacks Deep Space he won't gain a stack, and will instead lose one each time they tick. Note that due to their relatively low damage, pre-fight shielding can mitigate them, at least to some extent.

Targeted assassins - heroes who specifically target low health enemies - Xiangxi Ke, Nihil etc. - can be made to specifically attack Deep Space with some careful use of poke pre-fight. This isn't 100% reliable due both to miss rates and also to other heroes taking damage from the rest of your team, but can still be enough to shut him down - particularly because, as an ADC, he has very low defensive stats.

More Targeting - Leon and Felicity can both simply click on Deep Space (on the field and at the start of fights respectively) to entirely shut him down. Felicity is notable in particular as her damage is unavoidable and, since it's based on Deep Space's inflated AP, is likely to get through all but the toughest pre-fight shields within a tick or two. Both will make you severely regret bringing him, if you didn't already.

AoE - Just like those last two, anyone with AoE - Niels and Enidi, of course, but to a lesser extent Reinhardt and Foso - can bypass a heavy frontline and still land hits. Is the number of counters starting to come across yet?
v2.1 | Deep Space
Once again no itemisation shifts. Both Variants are pretty bad, though, so expect his stock to drop (not that it can get much lower). On the bright side though, the Extra Magazine buff mentioned by Precision Airstrike finally exists, converting into stacks of Full Firepower on entering a fight.

Variant 1

Gained - Deep Space gains 1 stack of Full Firepower when resurrected.

Changed - Deep Space gains 2 1 stacks of Full Firepower when entering a fight.

Changed - Full Firepower stacks are removed at the end of a fight on death.

Gained - Full Firepower has a maximum stack count of 5.

Mostly a nerf; the main effect of this is to give you a stack of Full Firepower on the field after dying and let you keep your stacks after fights. What you're paying for that privilege is getting a stack maximum, however, which is really not good for a hero that should only be picked if he's highly likely to be able to stack throughout fights. Lower ceiling, higher floor, but generally worse. Skirmish game does get a little better though, for what little that's worth.

Variant 2

Changed - Full Firepower grants 2.5 2 AP per game round per stack.

Gained - Playing a Missile card grants a stack of Extra Magazine.

Weakens Full Firepower's effect, but in exchange gives you more ways to stack it before getting into fights. This actually winds up being a benefit in less specialised comps - going in with more stacks means you can get more high damage hits off before you lose them from eating hits. In more specialised comps, meanwhile, this is mostly a nerf because you'll generally have to spend SP playing Missile periodically unless you drafted a way to search Volley (which does give you a stack for every Missile fired).
v3.1 | Deep Space
v3.1 Updates: Added a few counters. Also tweaked his Full Firepower numbers in the entry - either I misread something when writing it or Deep Space suffered an utterly inexplicable nerf at some point, going from 5x round number to 4x. Considering half the game's cast now shuts him down, that is really quite unfair for the poor ship-bound brain.

Item build: ADC. The poor guy can't even grab Stealth Dagger because it's magical.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing.

Funnelling: Nope. Doesn't use the stats really - he already has an AP source, and if he's taking hits you already lost. No point tutoring him either, really, since Precision Airstrike is a pretty inefficient way of spawning Missiles and Volley really isn't worth playing unless you're nigh-guaranteed to get a kill off it.

Rejected gags:
What's really sad is they've added two heroes that counter him so hard he may as well not show up to fights, and yet he's still better than Kaka. Wow.
Digo
Iiiiiiiiiit's Digo![ghostbusters.fandom.com] - Digo

Name: Digo

Position: Mid / Bot

Role: Mage

Mastery choices:
Eternal Throne deals or repairs 1 more damage to the targeted turret / Eternal Throne costs 1 less

Itemisation: Max damage - ignore survivability entirely.

Synergies: Tanks and Fighters (essentially anything that stays alive)

Counters: High resistance targets, Assassins

Countered by: None

Summary: Untouchable mage who can sit safely and throw damage around.

Analysis: Digo is the final word in safe, reliable backline carries. So long as there's another allied hero in the fight, Digo cannot be targeted by any enemy attacks, nor can he be afflicted by enemy debuffs (friendly buffs still work just fine). What's more, Digo's attacks in fights ignore enemy armour and damage resistance effects. That's right - a carry that can't be attacked and deals true damage. If this guy were in an actual MOBA he'd be all kinds of broken.

In this game, while not completely broken, he's still pretty powerful. His main drawback is his cards - while he's exceptionally potent in a fight, on the field he's pretty lacklustre. His passive can also cause occasional issues, particularly in early game bot lane ganks - it's common for early game ganks to end inconclusively because not enough damage is dealt to kill anything, but with Digo being untargetable the enemy team will focus his support exclusively. This can lead to early kill deficits.

He's also slightly let down by his itemisation; while Mage itemisation is perfectly fine for dealing damage, he won't be putting out the huge crits you'll see on an ADC in the late game, even if they are true damage. Ideally an entirely immune carry like this would be picking up 100% crit to maximise their damage output.

Generally speaking, though, you can safely draft Digo into your bot lane without too many issues; you should ensure you have a solid frontline (at least one tank and a fighter, usually) because, paradoxically, Digo only retains his safety so long as his allies are alive. He can also be taken in mid - he works okay there as well, but is much more vulnerable to ganks.

Cards:
Replace each destroyed turret with a special Digo turret. The special turret has very low health but gives no rewards for its destruction, deals the same damage as Digo, and allows Digo to attack all enemies within 1 hex when destroyed. This card spawns in the deck at round 60 and is removed when played.

Doesn't show up until round 60 at the earliest. This is a very good thing, because this card is atrociously bad. The effect itself barely does anything - the temporary towers essentially just slow down enemy pushes and provide some harass - and you're paying an absolutely absurd 6 SP for the privilege! Frankly, for an effect which amounts to 'lose a bit slower' (and, I suppose, some coverage from initiations), I wouldn't pay 3 SP for this. Avoid unless you're in desperate danger of imminently losing the game, and even then try to find something better to do first.

Target an enemy hero (globally) to start a fight with all heroes within 2 hexes of them. 4 round duration, and during the fight you're assisted by a special tower which has the same AP as Digo. Starts with 2 tokens and can't gain more; one token is removed when played, and the card is removed once all tokens are used up. Digo gets a second copy at max mastery, though how valuable that is can vary heavily.

Much better. This is an extremely potent initiation tool, albeit a very expensive one. The global range alone is enough to make this strong, but add to that the special tower - which is essentially a Digo that can't miss - and you stand a good chance of picking up kills off this. Also notable is the fact that only one tower can exist in a fight at a time - so if you use this to initiate a fight with an enemy, you've got tower support and the enemy don't, even if they're hugging their tower at the time.

Target a turret (global); Digo attacks all enemies within 2 hexes of it. He then deals 2/3 damage to the turret if it was an enemy turret, or repairs the same amount of health if it was friendly.

Not an especially powerful effect, but with the cost reduction from masteries it can be a decent enough poke tool and provide some chip damage to towers. Alternatively it can repair friendly turrets if you're getting beaten in lane. Bonus points for using this to destroy the enemy nexus and kill someone at the same time.


Interactions:
Acedia - Digo's interactions with Acedia are a little weird. Acedia's effect functionally removes an enemy hero from the fight for the first round; however, as far as Digo's concerned, they're still there. As a result, if Digo and one other hero are in a fight against an Acedia, she'll have no choice but to target Digo's ally (as Digo is untargetable). The enemy heroes will then be in a position where they're not allowed to attack anything - Digo is untargetable, and his ally is too. This essentially gives you a free round where the only hero that gets to attack is Digo.
This effect becomes even more comical if Acedia is on your team and the enemy draft Wukong - if you target Wukong with Acedia's effect, Wukong's debuff immunity reflects it onto your entire team. This makes your entire team untargetable, so once again, Digo is the only one who gets to attack.

Rear Guard - Thanks to his untargetability and his tower-centric cards, Digo is probably your best bet for a carry to play when you're behind. In my current Hell difficulty playthrough, I won several early matches at a huge stat deficit by drafting multiple tanks plus Vigo, surviving to the final fight and then winning the teamfight with consistent true damage hits.

Buffs - Again because he can't be targeted, Digo is a fantastic repository for your team's buffs. He won't quite push damage the same way a multi-attacker like Zealot or Bunu Shan will, but he will guarantee that you'll get the benefit of those buffs for the entire duration of the fight. And what's the only thing better than true damage? Even more true damage!
v2.1 | Digo
Not much change. Same ol'.

Variant 1

Removed - Digo deals true damage.

Gained - Digo's damage type is Hybrid.

Gained - Digo gains the The King buff on entering fights, increasing his AP by 15% for each living allied hero.

Mostly a sidegrade; losing the true damage hits hurts Digo's ability to punch through tanks, but in most cases the AP bonus makes up for it. Notably, however, Digo does get much stronger into squishy teams (who have less in the way of damage reduction); the hybrid damage type serves to open up his itemisation options so he can pick up some solid crit items as well. Generally weakens him for skirmishes, but not enough that you'd notice.
v3.1 | Digo
v3.1 Updates: No fundamental changes. I have however come to the conclusion that Digo's Variant is a marked upgrade. You lose true damage, yes, but in exchange get a hefty damage buff in teamfights which mostly balances it out. Meanwhile, you get access to crit itemisation to amplify your inflated damage numbers more. It's weaker if you're not building multiple tanks, but really, you're playing Digo - you're bringing tanks.

Item build: Mage. Disregard defences or downsides, just bring all the damage. If you're on his Variant, you'll probably get more damage out of building crit if there are decent crit items available.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing much.

Funnelling: Throwing AP onto him is okay. Avoid health for obvious reasons. You probably won't get much mileage from tutoring him, either, since you'd mostly be looking for Dominance, which is your entire DP budget.

Rejected gags:
I get that Digo is probably pretty arrogant, but did he really need to commission two four foot tall statues to stand in front of just to make himself look taller? Is that an oblique Napoleon reference?

Eternal Throne's artwork suggests that he spends eternity sitting on his crown. No judgment from me, I'm not gonna kinkshame a bro.
Elemi
A lot of heroes thought they could get an advantage here by bringing a gun. I stayed one step ahead - I brought two guns. - Elemi

Name: Elemi

Position: Mid / Bot

Role: ADC

Mastery choices:
If targeting the same unit, the second attack multiplier increases by 15% / If targeting different units, the second attack multiplier increases by 7% [x2]

Gain an additional 4.5 AP per level / Gain an additional 0.2 AP per 25 gold [Breaks even at 562.5 gold per one level, which you'll usually exceed]

Itemisation: ADC

Synergies: Minor synergies due to multiattack (Peiniang Zhu, Kamaitachi etc.)

Counters: None

Countered by: Minor counter due to multiattack (Kamaitachi, Merisi etc.)

Summary: Solid all-rounder ADC with no notable weaknesses.

Analysis: Elemi is a good, strong ADC with no real weaknesses. She fires twice with every attack, the first dealing the standard 100% AP (pre-mitigation, of course) and the second dealing variable damage depending on mastery choices and whether she targets the same target or a different one. As an absolute minimum, though, she'll be dealing 40% damage with the second shot - which is still a solid 140% multiplier on her damage output at the very least.

Probably her biggest weakness, if you can call it that, is that with a relatively generic set of abilities and cards she doesn't really synergise with anyone to a massive extent. She can perform just fine with any support and in any team, but also doesn't pair up with anyone to really destroy games. That's fine though - she is in every respect a safe pick. She won't be counterpicked, won't get destroyed in lane, and will simply be a reliable and dependable choice.

Notably, also, her cards orient her towards wanting Field Hit - the better her hit rate, the more she'll dominate lane (even more so than others, that is). This puts her in the curious position of being one of the best ADCs to pick when you have a positive skill discrepancy in the ADC role - if your ADC is notably better than the enemy's ADC, Elemi will really dumpster them (similar to Felyn). Avoid picking her into mid lane, where she'll fall over to every gank and is often solo-killable by many of the more duel-oriented mids.

Regarding Mastery choices - essentially, your decision is between reliability and potential. Taking the option for better damage on the same target is better for overall damage output provided she successfully targets the same enemy twice; the other option is obviously better if she's not hitting the same target, but more to the point, means she operates better in teamfights where she's particularly unlikely to get a double tap. Personally I favour the option for extra damage when hitting the same target, as it makes her an extremely good skirmisher and helps secure kills in bot lane ganks, but both options are viable depending on playstyle.

Cards:
Unplayable; modifies her other cards if it's in hand. If drawn during a Deployment Phase, searches her other cards.

Given it can't be played, there isn't much analysis to be done on this card - if it's in hand, that's good. That's about all you can say. A good target to be searched for with any effect that lets you pick cards, since it then draws Elemi's other hero cards.




Attack an enemy hero in the same hex. If it hits, deal 50% damage, push once, and repeat. Deals 1 bonus damage to turrets.

Something of a win-more card; if you have high Field Hit this is a great lane bully and push card, but to get that Field Hit you probably need to outskill your opponent (or have a Match Trait to boost it). Its damage output is pretty low for its cost, so you'll mostly want to use this if you're trying to push for tower damage. Overclocking adds 2 more tower damage, making this very good for blowing up structures if you can get into position before playing it.


Attack a random enemy or turret within 2 hexes. If you hit, repeat but with 10% reduced accuracy. Deals 1 bonus damage to turrets, and has a maximum of four hits.

Great damage, but again, only if you've got a lot of Field Hit. If you don't, 3 SP is a lot to be spending for 1-2 hits with no additional effects; it does have some potential tower damage on it at least. Overclocking halves the accuracy penalty on each successive hit and raises the maximum to five, giving you the best odds for straight up mercing someone.


Interactions:
Multi-hits - Like anyone else with multiple attacks in fights, has both synergy with, and counter potential from, heroes that interact on a per-attack basis - Kamaitachi, Merisi etc. etc.
v2.1 | Elemi
One of her two Variants is very, very nice; also a decent user of Acceleration Coil, though you probably only want to build it when said Variant is active.

Variant 1

Changed - Elemi's second attack deals 80% 120% damage if targeting the same unit and 40% 20% damage otherwise.

Not a particularly big change; this mostly benefits Elemi in skirmishes and into single tank compositions. If you decided on the same-target boost from masteries this can add up to a lot of single target punch. Also encourages you to bring effects which can isolate targets pre-fight, such as Acedia and Tiger Boy (hah, yeah right).

Variant 2

Changed - Elemi's second attack deals 80% 60% damage if targeting the same unit and 40% 30% damage otherwise.

Gained - Elemi's attacks shred 7 armour each for the rest of the fight.

A very, very nice upgrade - you lose some power for smaller and shorter fights, but gain it in larger and/or longer fights. On squishier targets in particular, the armour shred can very quickly make up for the loss of second attack damage even in small skirmishes; in longer fights, meanwhile, Elemi adds an element (ha) of inevitability to her otherwise solid-but-unremarkable performance. Pushes Elemi up to top tier alongside Felyn, BaJie and Foso.
v3.1 | Elemi
v3.1 Updates: No changes. Still pretty vanilla, still very strong.

Item build: ADC. No reason to change (two attacks per round aren't worth building multi-hitter items on your ADC, you want that role doing heavy damage).

Reserve Tactics: Nothing.

Funnelling: As much as any other ADC. Some limited additional value in tutoring since she can turn one searched card into three.

Rejected gags:
So vanilla I can't even come up with a second gag. Maybe something to do with that weird heartbreak street sign she stands next to? Nah, probably too signposted[www.leonardoenglish.com].
Felyn
Unlike a lot of heroes, Felyn doesn't bring any arrogance or cockiness to the game. She's just really, really, REALLY happy to be here. It's actually kind of creepy.

Name: Felyn

Position: Top / Bot Lane

Role: ADC

Mastery choices:
Improve energy level by 1 at the start of the game / Increase energy by an additional 1 when gaining a shield on the field

Increase energy by 1 after participating in a kill (after the fight) / Improve energy level by 1 at the start of the game

Itemisation: Hybrid ADC

Synergies: Search effects, field damage support

Counters: Gang, high resistance low health targets

Countered by: Lady Deadfire, Gillis, Bart

Summary: Lane bully ADC who can take over games if supported well

Analysis: Felyn is the premier bot lane bully and search target. If supported with search effects she can easily reach a state where she's double killing both of her lane opponents with just field attacks and winning skirmishes before they start; however, this requires heavy investment of support and SP.

Felyn's mechanics can be a little unclear at first glance, primarily because the game doesn't do a great job of differentiating between Energy and Energy Level. Energy is the bar beside Felyn's portrait with 7 pips in it; when she gains Energy, the bar fills up. Once the bar is fully filled (i.e. she's gained 7 Energy) she empties the bar and goes up one Energy Level. Energy is gained when gaining a shield on the field (+2) and when attacking in fights (+1, does not apply to her bonus shots), as well as from her cards.

Energy Level is immensely important to Felyn and influences everything she does. Firstly, whenever she attacks (whether harass, field attack or during fights) she deals additional true damage equal to her Energy Level x 10/15/20/25 (depending on mastery level). Secondly, several of her cards function based on Energy Level. Lastly, when Felyn first attacks in a fight, she follows her attack with a barrage of additional attacks. Each one only deals 15% AP damage and targets the highest health enemy, but applies her true damage passive; she fires a number of bonus shots equal to her Energy Level (max of 10/12/14/15 depending on mastery level).

The reason Felyn is so dependent on search effects is because of the way her mechanics snowball. Many of her effects increase her number of attacks based on Energy Level, but on top of that, increasing Energy Level boosts her true damage passive. That means each subsequent Energy Level gained provides successively more power, as well as spawning an Excited State in hand (which is her main tool for killing in lane). To give an example, going from Energy Level 1 to 2 will take her total passive damage at the start of a fight from 25 (1 x 1 x 25) to 100 (2 x 2 x 25); going from Energy Level 9 to 10 takes it from 2,025 (9 x 9 x 25) to 2,500 (10 x 10 x 25).

Note that there are natural break-points where Energy Level scaling reduces in effectiveness - level 5 (max Excited State attacks), level 10 (max Ultimate Charge attacks) and level 15 (max bonus shots at the start of the fight with max mastery level). She'll still get bonus damage from increasing her Energy Level after these soft-caps, but the total effectiveness will reduce slightly with each. That said, reaching Energy Level 15 is extremely difficult and unlikely to happen in the vast majority of games.

To conclude, Felyn has immense potential and can absolutely destroy lanes and games if supported with search effects to let her boost her Energy Level. If you want an ADC that doesn't require much investment, however, look elsewhere - a Felyn that doesn't have a lot of resources allocated to her is a Felyn that will accomplish basically nothing all game. Additionally, ensure you ban out any Lady Deadfire-playing supports if you want to play her unless you enjoy entering every single fight in the game with a 300% damage debuff on you; with v3.1 you're also going to need to get rid of Felicity or your first attack will probably kill you.

Finally, to give an example, this is what happens when you play a properly supported Felyn:
Importantly, note that a) this game was at a sizeable athlete skill deficit, b) Felyn only had a single hero to support her, and c) this is her playing into one of her hard counters. Her teammates' damage isn't low because they were underperforming, it's low because they literally had nothing to do; Felyn simply murders lane and pushes down the nexus. And this isn't just me posting a good game - this is literally what happens every time you pick Felyn-Blocker.

Cards:
Does not exist naturally in the deck; one copy is spawned in hand when Felyn's Energy Level increases. Attack random enemy heroes in the same hex as Felyn up to 5 times based on Energy Level, each dealing 15% damage. Removed when played.

Extremely dependent on high Energy Level for dealing damage - each attack only does 15% of Felyn's AP as base damage to a maximum of 75% AP, but procs her passive up to 5 times. As a result, this should usually be the last card you play so as to maximise your Energy Level before firing (the exception being when you're using it to soften enemies up prior to initiating). Note that although this is removed when played, it isn't removed when discarded; you can intentionally leave this card unplayed in the early game so as to stack up 4+ copies, search them all out (via Blocker's Signal Detection for instance) and unload on your opponent.

Can only be played while Felyn is in lane. Felyn (and her support, if present) push all the way up to the outermost enemy turret, pushing enemy heroes back with them. She then attacks up to 10 times based on Energy Level targeting random enemy heroes in the same hex and dealing 15% damage per attack. Finally she gains a shield equal to 25 x her level.

Extremely expensive, you'll generally want to avoid playing this in the early game unless you've got a surplus of SP or you really want the extra 2 Energy to reach a new Energy Level. Instead this is usually reserved for the mid-to-late game when Felyn has stacked up to a high Energy Level; you can then pop this (hopefully with a discount) to shove the enemy into their tower and unload damage cards to either kill them or force them out of lane. You've then got several rounds to beat on their tower for free.

Felyn gains a shield equal to 25 x her level. She then attacks each enemy hero within 1 hex, gaining 1 Energy for each hit.

Your best single card for gaining Energy, this can generate up to 5 under normal circumstances (remember she gets 2 for shielding herself on the field). Damage-wise this is better than her other cards early game due to being 100% AP, but falls off later on due to only being one shot per target (and so only proccing her passive once).



Gain 3 Energy and draw 3 cards. You then can't draw any more cards this Deployment Phase.

A little bit pricey for just drawing 3 cards, you're more playing this for the Energy with the cards as a bonus. That being said, if you're playing Felyn, you've already made the decision to do everything possible to boost her Energy. Remember to play any cycle cards you have (e.g. Warm-Up, Tactical Adjustment etc.) before playing this since you won't draw anything after it's played.
Felyn (cont.)
Interactions:
Blocker - It really cannot be overstated - Felyn-Blocker wins lane and wins game, pretty much every time. Lady Deadfire can counter Felyn inasmuch as she sets up Felyn to be ganked, but even she can't stop Felyn from murdering her over and over. Blocker provides Felyn with all the search support she needs, and importantly, gives her a shield whenever it takes damage on the field - generating 2 energy each time. There is literally no better ADC-support pair in the game.

Gillis - Notable as the main teamfight counter to Felyn. To properly counter you need to run quite a squishy comp - Felyn's bonus shots will target the highest health enemy - but so long as Gillis is highest health going into a fight Felyn will hammer her with shots in round 1, generating a vast amount of AP for Gillis going into round 2. She will take a bit of a beating herself - her 99% damage reduction does nothing against true damage, obviously - but that's scant consolation when she proceeds to one-shot your tank.

Bart - Although Felyn is a hybrid hero (so you'd think it wouldn't work that way), Bart still gets the full reflection damage - and more to the point, that reflect triggers on every single damage source. If you're building Felyn with on-hit effects that can easily be 3-4 triggers of Bart's reflect damage on every single attack, which has a high probability of ensuring your hyper-fed Felyn will explode herself in the first round of the fight.

Felicity - At last, a hero emerges[yugioh.fandom.com]. Felicity is the perfect storm of a Felyn counter - her debuff is targeted, happens before Felyn attacks, and each of Felyn's bonus attacks will be both triggering the debuff and also stacking it a minimum of two times per hit. The more energy you have, the more on-hit effects you have, the more likely it is Felyn doesn't get to see round 2. Good luck getting her through pick/ban, though.

Felyn is the only one out of 55 heroes that I went onto two pages for. Oof.
v2.1 | Felyn
No Variants - you can't improve on perfection. That said, did gain Acceleration Coil, which is a disgustingly good item for her. So I guess you can? Jeez, proving myself wrong in my own guide does not bode well for my writing career...
v3.1 | Felyn
v3.1 Updates: Added Felicity as a hard counter. No other changes necessary.

Item build: Multi-Attacker / ADC / Mage. You can build pretty much any combination of damage items on Felyn really, so long as they make at least a little bit of sense. On-hits like Acceleration Coil are the obvious winners, but even a traditional ADC or Mage build will work just fine so long as you're playing to stack Energy.

Reserve Tactics: Solo Show makes a lot of sense given you want to play Felyn cards all day every day.

Funnelling: Tutoring, yes. Felyn will dumpster lanes every single game if you tutor her properly. Bonus stats are unnecessary though - she doesn't actually scale all that hard with AP, and shouldn't really need health either.

Rejected gags:
Okay, I'm into a lot of alternative looks, but Felyn's is just weird to me. Boots with thigh-high socks, what looks like a leotard, and then a tiny jacket over the top. That's so impressively bizarre. I would love to see someone cosplaying Felyn.
Gang
Gang refuses to tell anyone how he lost his eye, claiming it to be too traumatic. The truth is he's just embarassed - he lost it running with scissors.

Name: Gang

Position: Bot Lane

Role: ADC

Mastery choices:
Range of Happy Birthday increases by 1 / Happy Birthday deals 50% less damage to friendly targets

AoE damage in fights increased from 15% to 20% / Gain an additional 2 AP per hit on the field

Itemisation: ADC

Synergies: Peiniang Zhu (AoE damage increase), Enidi (field damage), Frank, healing

Counters: Deep Space (AoE)

Countered by: None

Summary: High risk high reward nuke ADC.

Analysis: Gang is all damage, all the time. Everything he does deals damage, and he doesn't really care who he deals it to - a fair few of his cards his allies as well as enemies. In fights, happily, this isn't a concern - he only hits enemies, and when he does, he deals 15% damage to all other enemies (note - the calculation is slightly weird for the AoE. So far as I can tell it's 15% post-mitigation pre-crit damage; crits don't seem to interact with the AoE at all).

In all honesty Gang's AoE in fights is something of an afterthought - it exists, but it doesn't usually do enough to actually matter unless you're fighting a full glass cannon team. The main source of Gang's damage comes from the field - he has several field damage cards, and notably, generates them periodically. He then gains AP from each hit (8 AP per hit with full masteries), friend or foe. If you prioritise playing his cards on the maximum targets he can stack up an obnoxious amount of AP (easily 500+) from this, making him a very substantial threat both in fights and on the field.

It's not all up-side though - while Gang can easily chunk out or kill his lane opponents by the midgame thanks to his high field damage output, he also has a nasty tendency to do the same to himself and his support. This is where the risk lies - it's quite possible to throw around a bit too much damage and become extremely vulnerable to a gank. At times Gang will get himself low enough to die to a lone jungler even if he successfully forces his opponents out of lane, which is normally something only Niels has to worry about.

As a result, Gang is something of a risky proposition to run. He can definitely run away with a game, that much is undeniable; unfortunately he can also sabotage it. On average he tends to pay off more often that he doesn't, though, which makes him a fairly high value bot lane pick - particularly because he doesn't really need any specific support (although he does prefer tanks since he's less likely to kill them).

When you get Gang rolling properly, this is what tends to happen:

Cards:
Attack all heroes (friend or foe) within 2/3 hexes.

Quite reasonably priced for the effect (provided you take the range increase, at least); you stand a good chance of hitting both mid laners and at least one jungler as well as everything in bot lane. That's a lot of potential AP waiting to happen, and can allow Gang to assist with mid lane kills without any real effort.




Choose a hex in a straight line direction. Attack all heroes (friend or foe) within 1 hex of it, dealing 75% damage. Does not spawn naturally in the deck; generated in hand every 10 rounds. Removed when played or if left unplayed at the end of a Deployment Phase, doesn't count towards hand limit.

More AoE field attacks; the straight-line targeting can make hitting anything other than bot lane awkward, but does open up the possibilities of hitting mid or even top for more intervention pre-fight. Note that despite hitting friend and foe alike, this costs nothing and generates AP, so you may as well throw it even if it's only hitting allies.

Attack all enemy heroes who have been hit by Gang this round. Removed when played or if unplayed at the end of the Deployment Phase.

A nice follow-up in a similar vein as Enidi's Return Performance, this is a good way to ensure that you trade up despite blowing half your team to pieces. Unfortunately, you only get one to start with (and it's expended on use), so your only way to get more is through the rather overpriced Demolish. Also note that it disappears if you end your DP without playing it, so take that into consideration if you're using search effects.


Choose a lane and attack the outermost hero or turret on that lane. Also attack all enemy heroes and turrets within 1 hex of that target. Turrets take 2 damage; if you hit at least one hero, spawn a copy of Shut Up in hand.

Extremely expensive for what it does, you're rarely going to hit more than 2 heroes with this so you're paying a lot of SP just for some chip damage on the tower. You do generate a Shut Up if you hit, but equally, having already spent 5 SP on this you're not doing much else with your turn if you play Shut Up as well. Generally avoid this card unless you're able to snipe down a turret or really going all in to kill something.

Interactions:
AoE - Given his innate AoE, Gang has interactions with all the various things AoE usually interacts with - Deep Space's passive, Peiniang Zhu's Lightning Mark, pairing with other AoE, etc. etc.

Frank - Frank is a good choice of teammate for Gang; he provides a nice solid frontline wall, and is also a good target for Gang to hit with his field attacks.
v2.1 | Gang
Very little change.

Variant 1

Changed - Spawns a Boom! card to your hand every 10 20 rounds.

Gained - Playing Boom! spawns a copy of Shut Up into your hand.

A very slight nerf - Shut Up is a decent card, but unlike Boom! it costs SP and can't target friendlies to stack Gang's AP up. Doesn't really make all that much difference overall, though.
v3.1 | Gang
v3.1 Updates: Clarified that Shut Up! is expended whether played or not; no other changes.

Item build: ADC. You pretty much want to play standard with Gang, maybe skewing more towards AP and less towards crit. Note that his AoE attacks do interact with on-hit effects like Acceleration Coil and Helium Canister, but you should probably still prioritise standard damage items since on-hits don't work on the field where Gang does a lot of his work.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing much. Solo Show can work if you really want to stack up the AP, but honestly is usually surplus to requirements. Quick Recall, on the other hand, becomes more valuable since you're much more likely to be making one or more friendly targets drop to low health.

Funnelling: Probably not. Demolish is a bit too pricey to tutor, and he already gets plenty of AP from his passive.

Rejected gags:
I can kind of understand him throwing around straight up bundles of dynamite. But I have to ask - why is the fuse already lit on the archive screen? And why does Demolish show a TIMER?! Someone needs to hire these devs a continuity director, because these inconsistencies are really killing my immersion.
Omaha
Omaha is much weaker than he should be because Wild Heart's greatest asset is being immune to trap cards[yugioh.fandom.com], which sadly don't exist in this game.

Name: Omaha

Position: Bot lane

Role: ADC

Mastery choices:
Sentinel lasts for 3 more rounds / Eagle Soar costs 1 less


Wild Heart gets additional AP equal to 2 x Omaha's level / Wild Heart shreds 5 more armour

Itemisation: ADC

Synergies: None

Counters: None

Countered by: AoE, low health targeting

Summary: Vanilla ADC with a powerful but fragile summon.

Analysis: Omaha is what happens when you take Kaka and make him not terrible. In fights he summons Wild Heart, a summon which has the same AP as Omaha (if you're building right) and 25% of Omaha's max health (Plus some more - bonus health should be 50x Omaha's level with masteries but never seems to quite line up). Wild Heart also shreds armour equal to Omaha's level plus 5 with each attack, and unlike Kaka's Stone Hound, doesn't cause Omaha to spontaneously explode when killed. Oh, and you can send Wild Heart off to help someone else and he'll still come be present if Omaha fights in the meantime. Really, everything Kaka does wrong, Omaha does right.

This leaves Omaha in a position of dealing extremely high potential damage; he gets his own vanilla ADC attacks, plus a summon with all of his AP and a sizeable armour shred on the back of it. The downside is that Wild Heart is extremely squishy due to its very small health pool and being melee; while it costs you nothing in the longer run to have him die, once he goes down in a fight you're left with an entirely ability-less ADC. Note also that while Wild Heart inherits Omaha's AP, it doesn't receive crit chance, crit damage, or any of his item effects (much like a Zealot clone).

Omaha winds up falling into a slot in the middle of the tiers for ADCs. He has aforementioned great damage output, but Wild Heart is too squishy to be reliable; while his damage is technically higher than someone like Elemi, she at least keeps putting her damage out until she goes down. As soon as Wild Heart dies, Omaha's actual damage output isn't high enough to compare to any other ADC. You should only pick Omaha, therefore, if you've had a strangely high number of ADC bans come through - or if you're trying to run a very skirmish-heavy playstyle, which his cards do well.

Cards:
Choose an allied hero (global). For the next 5 rounds, if that hero fights, Wild Heart also joins the fight.

A nice way to get an advantage in skirmishes anywhere on the map for the cost of a hand slot. Surprisingly impactful due to Wild Heart's high AP total; can also be used to ward off ganks thanks to the birb soaking a couple of hits. Doesn't stop Omaha getting his birb when he fights, and also works for objective fights (provided you pick someone who's going to be in that fight).




Choose an enemy hero (global); start a fight with all heroes within 1 hex of the target (3 round duration). Wild Heart joins this fight.

A pretty good initiation card - it's global, you get Wild Heart on your side, and it costs less than a vanilla initiation card to boot (with masteries, that is). Note that since you get Wild Heart either way, there's no need to wait for Sentinel to play this.





Interactions:
Vulnerable Birb - Omaha becomes trash tier if Wild Heart goes down early; as such, he's vulnerable to the various ways in which that can happen. Substantial AoE from Niels or Enidi, assassination from Xiangxi Ke, even Nihil's lower damage numbers are enough to put Wild Heart down in a couple of rounds. Foso, of course, will simply delete it.

Killdeer with the broken wing - Omaha's low health total can work in your favour if you're facing low-health assassination heroes, since he's almost always going to come in with a lower health total than your actual heroes. This lets you soak murderous backstabs with a disposable birb. Remember Xiangxi Ke gets a free attack when an enemy dies, though, so it's not all that effective at warding her off.

Kid - Minor point, but despite not being a hero Wild Heart counts as a target for the purposes of Kid's stat boosts. Omaha can slot nicely into a Kid-centric comp so that he'll get a nice chunk of AP when Wild Heart is inevitably sniped. v3.1 addition Fernan also gets his own version of this effect, and so can get some nice benefits picked into an Omaha.
v2.1 | Omaha
Loses out pretty hard with the update - he gained nothing from the changes aside from a bad Variant and a few possible items, and in exchange got a big, nasty new counter in Foso.

Variant 1

Changed - Wild Heart shreds ignores armour equal to 1x 2x Omaha's level on hit.

An overall nerf - while this does boost the birb's damage in smaller engagements, this comes at the cost of the armour shred, which would boost everyone else's damage as well. What's worse, the armour shred sticks around for the entire fight, while Wild Heart is probably falling over in the first round. Omaha was already pretty mid in vanilla, you don't want to draft him when this Variant is knocking around; you could technically draft some heavy Presence tanks and/or Peter to keep the birb around longer, but at that point you're throwing half your draft into protecting a summon which is not all that wise.
v3.1 | Omaha
v3.1 Updates: A few tweaks here and there. He jumped up the tier list simply because he's probably a little better than I was giving him credit for, though he's still not amazing.

Item build: ADC. Don't be tempted to build flat AP to help scale Wild Heart - with that health total he's not making it to the end of the fight (he's lucky to see round 2).

Reserve Tactics: Nothing.

Funnelling: Not really worth, at least any more than any other ADC. Bonus AP might help Wild Heart a little, but as noted, he's falling over fast no matter what you do; bonus health on Omaha does nothing for the birb. Can be worth tutoring if you want to take advantage of the cheaper, global Initiation with attached poultry.

Rejected gags:
During their downtime, Omaha entertains himself and others by playing Wild Heart's wings like pan pipes.

According to all known laws of aviation, there is no way Wild Heart should be able to fly. Its wings are too sma- *sounds of a violent beating*
Shougong Lei
No I'm not related to Peiniang Zhu. What, just because we both have wings, bird legs, a beak, and use lightning powers, you think we're incredibly similar? Like we have some kind of really lazy designer? Racist.

Name: Shougong Lei

Position: Bot

Role: ADC

Mastery choices:
Thunderstorm cost reduces by 1 / Fragile debuff increases damage taken by 20% instead of 15%

Heaven Strike cost reduces by 1 / Gain 3 additional AP per level

Add a copy of Piercing Lightning to your hand in your first Deployment Phase / Heaven Strike costs 1 more but applies an additional Fragile stack

Itemisation: Mage

Synergies: Clean-up heroes

Counters: Very big, beefy tanks

Countered by: Wukong (debuff reflection)

Summary: Mediocre ADC with a damage-increasing debuff and absurdly expensive cards.

Analysis: Shougong Lei finds himself in the unfortunate position of a rather schizophrenic role designation. The entire hero design revolves around the Fragile debuff, which causes the recipient to take 15/20% increased damage until the end of the next fight; while this is a pretty decent debuff in and of itself, the one role you don't really want to be applying it is the ADC. The ADC's role is to hit things very, very hard - hard enough, in fact, that the Fragile debuff should be rather redundant.

That's not to say the debuff is bad - the issue is simply that you want it being applied prior to the ADC attacking the target, and ideally being applied by someone tanky enough to stick around to apply it a lot. Shougong Lei is neither of these things. You can, of course, apply the debuff prior to a fight (although not with harass, of course) - unfortunately, though, Shougong Lei's cards are all very expensive, which makes doing so consistently an unattractive prospect. This makes Shougong Lei very much appreciate Poke tactics cards to allow him to cheaply apply his debuff before going into a fight.

On the whole, then, Shougong Lei doesn't really have any kind of niche - he's not useless, but most other ADCs will do the ADC role better, and his debuff really doesn't wind up accomplishing all that much most of the time. You can get some mileage out of him as a setup for heroes that like long fights (Kid, for instance), or as a way to get through very beefy frontlines - but you're still better off drafting your other roles for that and picking up someone in the ADC role who'll do that job better.

As an aside - note that Shougong Lei uses Mage itemisation due to being magical. Not being able to stack crit like most ADCs can really underlines the fact that the debuff is the only reason he exists. It also means his potential damage ceiling is much lower than most bot laners.

Cards:
Attack all enemy heroes.

Simple, and extremely expensive. The main purpose of this card of course is to apply Fragile rather than the attack itself, and while 4 SP is a lot, it works out to being fairly reasonable for five attacks across the map. Unfortunately it has no innate accuracy bonus - misses hurt when you're spending half your SP on attacks - but all the same this is a strong card to be throwing out right before an objective fight.



Attack an enemy hero (global). The attack always hits, ignores armour, and applies an extra stack of Fragile if the target didn't have the debuff already.

Contrasting with Thunderstorm, which sets up for teamfights, Heaven Strike is best used as setup for smaller skirmishes or ganks (albeit with the assistance of discounts or SP gains to offset the ridiculous cost). It's reliable and adds multiple Fragile stacks to allow you to get enough damage in during a shorter fight window to secure a kill; it can also be used to assist with neutralising a priority target in larger fights.


Pick a lane; deal 3 damage to that lane's tower and attack all heroes on that lane. One copy spawned at level 6/11/16, removed when played.

Like Heaven Strike, primarily useful in setting up for smaller skirmishes. Unlike Heaven Strike, however, it doesn't really have a niche - it's too expensive to be a good pushing tool, and circumstances with more than two targets in one lane are pretty rare. Fortunately it doesn't clog up your deck much.




Interactions:

No particular interactions that are noteworthy other than Wukong's ubiquitous debuff-countering. Remember not to pick him alongside Felicity.
v2.1 | Shougong Lei
One of the very few heroes in the game with a Variant which is just a flat nerf. Inexplicable to me considering he's decent but not top tier, but the AI does love him, so who knows.

Variant 1

Gained - Shougong Lei's damage type is Hybrid.

Changed - Fragile increases incoming damage by 15% 10% per stack.

A small overall nerf; hybrid damage type does open up some new itemisation options (and in fact lets him become the ADC you'd actually want to be drafted into that role), but he loses a chunk of his Fragile damage for it; given the only reason to pick him at all is for Fragile, that might not be a trade worth making. This is especially true since the debuff still applies after he deals damage, meaning you're missing the increase on the single most damaging hero on your team.

Variant 2

Changed - Fragile increases incoming damage by 15% 10% per stack.

...And here's the exact same thing but without the Hybrid damage to offset it. Absolutely avoid Shougong Lei when this Variant is active.
v3.1 | Shougong Lei
v3.1 Updates: Fixed his entry to reflect that he uses Mage itemisation rather than ADC. I actually noticed that error back when I was doing the v2.1 update, but honestly couldn't bring myself to care enough about the hero to fix it. I am so very professional.

Item build: Mage. You're missing out on a bot lane ADC to bring this guy, so you'd better make sure he's packing the damage numbers to make up for that.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing much. He benefits greatly from cost reductions on his cards since they're all decent but really expensive - but that's true of basically everything in the game, so it's not like you're going to be drafting more of them. He does like Poke cards, but I'm sceptical that he does well enough with them to justify their inclusion.

Funnelling: Tutoring, no - his cards are just too expensive. He's also not a good stat dump since he has an ADC's stat growth so he's not even getting the bonus health to offset the loss of ADC itemisation.

Rejected gags:
Has been secretly going bald for years, but cleverly hides it by combing his eyebrows over the top of his head.

Not really sure what's going on with his weapons - I'm pretty sure his left hand weapon is supposed to be a chisel (it's a bit too blocky for a sword), but it's way too long for that. On top of that, he attacks with lightning, not either of the things he's holding. Maybe stonemasonry is associated with lightning in some culture or other? Legitimately no idea.
v2.1 | Quinn
Remember kids - gambling is FUN!

Name: Quinn

Position: Bot

Role: Crit ADC

Mastery Choices: Morning Greeting deals 125% damage / Morning Greeting restores 1 additional SP if the target dies.

Increase crit damage by 10% / Gain 1% crit rate per level

Itemisation: Crit and crit damage.

Synergies: Not much - some minor synergies with discard effects and external crit sources.

Counters: Nothing much

Countered by: Bart (crit immunity)

Summary: Gambling ADC entirely reliant on crit.

Analysis: The short version is this - Quinn is BaJie but more so.

Quinn's central mechanic is Roulette. When a fight starts this becomes Spade; this does nothing. When Quinn crits with an attack, Spade becomes Heart and Quinn also gains a stack of Ante Up, increasing her crit damage by 10%. If Quinn attacks while she has Heart active, Heart turns back into Spade - but if the attack crits it becomes a super crit, dealing crit damage x crit damage.

As should be immediately obvious, Quinn likes crit. As in, she's utter garbage in fights unless she can more or less guarantee landing crits on every shot. You should of course itemise crit wherever possible, draft any external crit sources you can, and - and this is VERY important - don't ever draft her at a skill defecit. A missed shot can't crit, after all, and a few attribute points can shift hit chances substantially.

If you can guarantee those crits (and indeed, hits) though, Quinn has the highest damage potential in the game - even higher than BaJie or Deep Space. The most absolutely vanilla super crit imaginable would still deal 150% x 150% = 225% damage; reaching 200% crit damage is nigh inevitable, which puts you at 400% damage. If you can add in a couple of other crit damage boosts she can do dirty, dirty things. This then feeds into her supplementary mechanic - if Quinn kills something with an attack in fights, the excess damage is dealt to all enemy units. On theme, this is something of a gamble (even if you weaken a target beforehand, you have no way of guaranteeing Quinn will target them, nor of ensuring other teammates don't) - but in theory it's possible to get a pentakill off a single attack. Incidentally, the game does automatically display the super crit damage while Hearts is active (by updating the crit damage readout), which is nice.

On the whole, Quinn is an entirely viable ADC so long as your athlete isn't notably worse than their opponent. Unfortunately though, she's competing in the hypercarry space with BaJie, who simply does the same thing but more reliably. If BaJie is banned out, Quinn is a solid alternative, but otherwise there's no reason to pick her.

An irrelevant but amusing aside - take a close look at Quinn's portrait. If there's any character in any media that expresses 'yandere' better with just a single look, I'd like to hear it.

Cards:
When entering the discard pile (whether discarded or played), searches Quinn's other two cards into hand. Starts with two charges and is removed when none remain.

A pretty nice way to tutor Quinn's cards - though generally only Tea Time is really something you want. Has some nice, if minor, synergy with heroes that can discard for you, like Xiangxi Ke and Paisai. Another small but valuable function is that if you no longer want this card to exist (i.e. Quinn is at 100% crit already), you can throw it out as soon as you find it and sooner or later it'll disappear, thinning your deck out.

Attack an enemy hero (anywhere). Quinn gains a stack of Ante Up at the start of the next fight she joins this round, and the first time an enemy dies this round you gain 2 SP.

An unfortunately underwhelming card because it just doesn't do enough of any one thing to impress - a single stack of Ante Up is rarely going to make much difference outside of very late game fights, a single poke hit doesn't deal much damage, and even if the stars align, all the SP restore is doing is refunding the cost (okay, fine, plus one with masteries). If you're highly likely to secure a kill this does at least allow Quinn to contribute some low grade poke for free map-wide, but otherwise you'll only play this with a discount.

End the Deployment Phase immediately. Until your next Deployment Phase starts, Quinn gains 0.75% crit chance per round, doubled if you had 0 SP after playing this.

A very nice card for bolstering Quinn's reliability - it won't provide anywhere near all you need, but playing this whenever you're ending a Deployment Phase should give you enough to reach 100% crit alongside itemisation and masteries. It's also very cheap, so you can usually slot it in alongside your other plays for the turn. Bear in mind though that this becomes entirely useless after you break 100% crit (it doesn't covert into crit damage like a lot of other things do).

Interactions:
No particular interactions besides Bart shutting her down even more than most crit ADCs. Dylan is a good support for her, incidentally, since Strengthening Potion can help her to 100% crit and she inflates that crit damage heavily.

Variant 1

Removed - If Quinn kills a target, deal the overkill damage to all enemy units.

Gained - When Quinn participates in a kill, she gains a stack of Blinds, increasing her crit damage by 4% and stacking up to 5 times.

Gained - When an enemy unit dies, Quinn swaps to Heart if she isn't already in it.

Slightly reduces Quinn's gamba potential - you're not relying on a big overkill spread to win fights, but instead can just chain kills together each time Quinn's crits kill targets. She also stacks up a bit of extra crit damage which is nice (particularly since a little for her goes a long way). Note that although the game states 'participates' in a kill, this doesn't seem to apply if she gets a cross-map assist via Morning Greeting; it also makes Ante Up more difficult to stack in fights because Hearts kills will keep you in Heart.
v3.1 | Quinn
v3.1 Updates: Minor tweaks.

Item build: ADC. On theme, how much crit itemisation you take is a bit of a gamble - Quinn is pretty garbage in fights without reliable crits, but unlike BaJie or Lan she gets no benefit from exceeding 100%. Given Tea Time exists, you're usually better off prioritising crit damage or simple AP, picking up one or two crit items at most.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing in particular. I can see an argument for running Focus to strip out her cards once you've reached 100% crit, but this happens late enough (and her cards aren't bad enough) to really be worth it.

Funnelling: No. She already has a search effect to keep Tea Time going, and Morning Greeting is just flat mediocre. You could give her some bonus AP if it's lying around since she'll be getting big multipliers on Hearts, but it really shouldn't be needed.

Rejected gags:
Greetings fellow human[tenor.com]. I am here at the human bar doing human things. Like eating chips and drinking iced tea. Okay, fine, maybe the sign says 'Hitman Bar', with the stylised text it's really hard to tell.

I don't wanna be overly critical here, but this imagery is all over the place. You've got a bar sign, but then what I take to be DJ turntables; Quinn is dressed in gothic lolita fashion but with WAY too much red; her weapon appears to be a grenade launcher but there are random cartoon-style bombs scattered around. Really, the design here is so schizophrenic I'd be sending the people involved to see a doctor.
v2.1 | Foso
I realise she's as much star-themed as witch-themed, but all the same I am deeply disappointed that Foso doesn't have a black cat.

Name: Foso

Position: Top / Mid / Bot

Role: AoE Mage

Mastery Choices: When Foso has a shield she gains 8% AP / When Foso has a shield she gains 5 armour

Black Star grants a shield equal to 25% of the damage dealt / Astral Guardian grants an additional 15 shielding per level

Itemisation: Shield generation and damage

Synergies: Anything that can give her a shield

Counters: Summons, skirmishers

Countered by: Hass (steals her shield)

Summary: Very strong, splashable AoE mage.

Analysis: Despite summon heroes running the gamut from strong (Zealot) through okay (Omaha) all the way to garbage (Kaka), the devs apparently felt the need to introduce Foso - an already very strong hero who also hard counters all summon heroes. Not really sure what's going on there.

Foso is an extremely potent and very flexible mage. She has two major selling points, the first of which is simple - she always attacks two enemy heroes with each attack (assuming there are two in the fight, anyway). If there are summons present she will also attack them - note that the main double attack only targets heroes, so there's no danger of missed damage. Unlike the game's other AoE heroes there are no caveats, requirements or drawbacks - Foso just straight up has double damage potential.

That, itself, is already pretty strong. We then add to that her other major effect - when Foso has a shield, she gains AP. Specifically, she gets a percentage boost to her AP proportionate to the shield's size in relation to her max health - in other words, her shield / her max health is her total percentage AP boost. There doesn't seem to be any kind of upper cap to this, and it's entirely possible to go over 100% - and since you're already targeting at least two enemies, this acts as a multiplier on a multiplier.

As if these weren't enough perks, Foso also has a couple of other (relatively minor) perks - she gains 10 armour whenever she has a shield (which isn't much but helps to keep the shield up), and whenever an enemy unit dies in a fight she self-cleanses all debuffs and gets a shield equal to 8% of the current health of the highest hero remaining in the fight. With a high health tank around this can get snowbally very quickly as Foso generates a big ol' shield from killing one enemy and uses the AP it grants her to wipe out more.

To be clear, Foso is not a hypercarry as such. She's not an all-consuming threat like Niels can be, nor is she going to threaten team wipes on the field like Enidi. What she is, however, is a mage who can function in multiple lanes without issues, puts out large amounts of damage consistently, can bypass frontlines with moderate reliability, and doesn't need any investment to function well. Oh, and she's also strong in skirmishes (thanks to hitting a higher percentage of enemy units per attack) and keeps your deck thin. All that with no drawbacks - she manages to hit top tier without even needing to be countering any summons.

While she can work well in any lane, her best spot is probably mid. She's potent enough to want in objective fights as soon as you can get her there and does well in 2v1 gank situations. You're least likely to want her in bot lane, as while she's good at supporting ganks there she doesn't do the same thing an ADC does so you'll be running a lopsided comp.

In short, Foso is pick-or-ban material in all metas and at all times. Fo' Sho'.

Cards:
Initiate a fight between the lowest percentage health allied and enemy heroes, lasting until one of them dies. The allied hero is granted Foso's shield when the fight starts. This card is removed when played.

An exceptionally nice card, you can pretty much guarantee it will get you a kill sooner or later. Note that it works off percentage missing health, not current health, so you can manipulate it fairly easily; you can shift the enemy target with one or two pokes in particular. Happily this card is also one-and-done, removing itself when played; you might think this is a drawback given its potential, but thinning your deck is always useful. You should try to play this as soon as you think you can get a kill off it, both to start the snowball and to improve your draw odds slightly.

Can't be played. Upon entering your hand, Foso gains a shield equal to 12% of the health of the highest hp hero.

Another nice card. It does have an unfortunate tendency to clog up your hand since you can't get rid of it without discard effects; while mildly vexing, this downside is heavily outweighed by the fact that it costs literally nothing and gives you something you very much want. There really isn't much analysis to be done beyond that - you can't choose to play it, so why do you need me to analyse it for you?


Target an enemy hero (anywhere) for Foso to attack them. Foso then attacks all enemy heroes within 1 hex of that hero, then within 1 hex of those heroes, and so on until she runs out of targets. She can only attack any given hero once.

Foso's only iffy card, and that's only because it's pricey for what it does. It's still not terrible - a globally-targeted attack can be extremely helpful even without the bounce effect - but at 3 SP you'll usually have a better play available. Having said that, with masteries it also generates a decently-sized shield, which is definitely enough to make you want to play it.


Interactions:
Shields: It's obvious, and I've already mentioned it, but it bears repeating - Foso loves shields. Lots of shields. The more shielding you can throw at her, the harder she hits; she's also a bit more vulnerable to losing said shield than is preferable due to being melee (Stealth Dagger can help with that). On the bright side, being melee means Palulu will target her regardless of her Variant - you finally have a reason to draft her!

Health: It's really very counterintuitive, but Foso is the only hero in the game that doesn't want max health. In fact, you want her max health as low as it can possibly go. This is because of the way her shield boost works - the higher the shield as a proportion of her max health, the more AP she gets. Avoid items which give health, don't target her with any health buffs, and if possible buy items which lower max health (there aren't many, but Unicorn Crown was basically made for her). Your shields will keep you alive, and your AP will skyrocket.

Summons: Obviously, never draft summons into Foso. I'd say 'or if she's open', but if Foso is unpicked she should be banned. Every. Single. Time.
v3.1 | Foso
v3.1 Updates: Some tweaks here and there, nothing major. Clarified her preferable lane because I was probably leaning too hard on the 'she's busted' humour originally.

Item build: Mage. She has a nice set of shield-creation items which can be very potent if you can get them online (Portable Robot, Unicorn Crown, Psychic Glove, in that order), but bear in mind they're very expensive in total. Any items missing from the above can be replaced with any high damage mage items (Blue Monolith especially). Unicorn Crown isn't worth it if there isn't at least one of the other two available.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing much. Maybe consider a Rethink or Perfect Tempo if you're sick of seeing Astral Guardian in your hand every turn.

Funnelling: Not really worth tutoring, if only because once Libra is played you'll only be drawing one playable card, and that's not something you want to spam. She does very nicely with bonus stats though, since she's getting double benefit from AP; health is a mixed bag since it lowers her potential AP gain from shields, but does keep her alive longer up on the frontlines.

Rejected gags:
Hanging crucifixes, but also a crescent moon? Come on guys, at least pretend to have some artistic consistency here!

In hindsight, the black cat wish is probably foolish. Given what she does to the Stone Hound, Wild Heart and Zealot clones, she clearly just hates animals. And whatever the hell Zealot is.
Supports
Tier list:

Key
S Tier: Heroes that can be safely blind-picked, with no real counters, strong cards and which counter some heroes; or heroes that have the potential to completely take over a game in the right comp

A Tier: Solid picks which have few counters, if any, and which can generally perform at least adequately in any given situation while having strong potential to excel, but lack some key tool(s) for being a complete package; or heroes that can become extremely powerful with the right comp and setup

B Tier: Heroes who are very situational, only working well with a great setup and/or against specific enemy heroes or comps (e.g. counterpicks); or heroes that can become extremely powerful, but are heavily countered by too many heroes to feasibly ban out for; or heroes that are good in fights but have terrible cards, or vice versa.

C Tier: Heroes that generally don't perform amazingly; they lack the tools to excel, meaning the best they can hope for is to perform their role in a satisfactory fashion.

D Tier: Heroes that will pretty much never do anything, really. This is the only tier of heroes you should generally avoid.

Explanations

S Tier: Flexible and powerful supports. They have specific ADCs they work particularly well with, but can all excel with a variety of heroes whether in bot lane or elsewhere.

A Tier: Solid, but not incredible, picks. Paisai has broad toolbox utility, with Dylan leaning more towards buffing and Deadfire more towards damage. Palulu is on the border between A and B tier, making A off the back of her counterpick potential and the handful of heroes who really like shields.

B Tier: Situational picks. Crank is powerful but really wants solo lane gold.

C Tier: Meh. Peiniang Zhu has synergy with a lot of heroes, but nothing really gets past the fact that she doesn't really do enough.

D Tier: Fatty White is bad. Doesn't bring anywhere near enough to compete with other picks.

Drafting for Support

Red side means first pick support plus support target, whether this is ADC or another lane; most common support target after ADC is jungle. Support is the role you're going to want synergy for most, so pay attention to it; generally isn't a role you need to ban for, however, unless you need to ban out Charon so you can gank focus bot. If you're taking a general purpose support, Acedia and Paisai usually do that best.
v2.1 | Supports

Once again no huge movement. Some of the Support Variants shift quite a lot of power, so pay attention to them.

S Tier: No changes, but Acedia can drop from S all the way to bordering between A and B with her Variant. It's not very good. Blocker and Beverly both have relatively weak Variants, but neither hurt their core strengths enough to shift the needle.

A Tier: I would probably have dropped Palulu down to B tier here - she's not quite as versatile as I thought - but her synergy with Foso and ability to support her from across the map lets her hold on to her place. For now, anyway. Deadfire's Variant drops her down to B tier while active, while Paisai's moves him up to S.

B Tier: Qin Hu arrives. While I maintain he's best in top lane, he's actually closest to reaching A tier here - not because he's stronger here, but because he has less competition.

C Tier: Crank drops down to C tier. He didn't really get any worse in the support role - although his Variant is bad for it - but I realised that if I'm dumping Peiniang Zhu down here because all she brings is middling damage without actual support, Crank should probably follow the same rationale (particularly given how weak his cards are).
v3.1 | Supports

Once again, a lot of movement!

S Tier: In a truly meteoric rise, Peiniang Zhu jumps three tiers to land in S tier, all off the back of one card being buffed. With Thundercloud now lasting all game, she becomes a very low maintenance, very high damage pseudo-mage, albeit one who doesn't actually support you at all. Beverly and Paisai swap tiers - Beverly remains a very strong funnel support but Renovation's cost means you really need to be picking a good target for it, while Paisai provides generic but potent team-wide support in every comp.

A Tier: Aside from the Beverly-Paisai inversion, we've got Palulu dropping a tier to B - she's fine, just not outstanding unless she's assisting some specific heroes. Anna and Felicity both come in strong, the former being perfect for any skirmish meta (but not great outside skirmishing) and the latter being a great counterpick and setup hero but who doesn't mix all that well. Dylan and Deadfire get to stay where they are.

B Tier: Tiger Boy drops to C - really, all he's bringing is a couple of stuns and decent draw support, which just aren't enough to compete with other supports. Tivie joins him - she isn't terrible but with healing instead of shielding and weaker cards, she just winds up being Palulu but worse unless you can make a huge play off Heaven Rainfall. Palulu takes Tivie's place as the B-tier pure support.

C Tier: Peiniang Zhu is long gone; Tiger Boy and Tivie replace him. Crank continues to languish in a role where he just doesn't get the AP to make his kit work well.

D Tier: Fatty White stays down here as a support you'll only pick if you're desperate for a tank and can't play Peter or Blocker. Felicity's appearance only made things worse for him since he has some cleansing in his kit.
Acedia
Stop trying to look up her nightdress on the archive screen. Don't think I don't see you. Y'dirty bugger.

Name: Acedia

Position: Support

Role: Support

Mastery choices:
If you have at least 10 stacks of Sleepiness, Alarm Clock gives 5 more gold per stack / If you have at least 10 stacks of Sleepiness, Alarm Clock costs 0

Itemisation: Support-tank

Synergies: Gillis (Charm gold multiplier), BaJie (gooooold!)

Counters: Gillis, Lubos, Reinhardt (remove first round action)

Countered by: None

Summary: Versatile support primarily used for gold generation.

Analysis: Acedia is a low maintenance support. She doesn't give as many benefits to your team as someone like, say, Dylan will; nor does she partner up with a carry to dominate a game like someone like Blocker will. What she instead does is provide some decent assistance to your team while requiring absolutely no SP to be spent playing her cards, allowing you to get value from her while still dumping your SP into heroes like Kid, Lan and Wolfgang - who are powerful but require a fair amount of SP investment to use effectively.

While on the field, whenever you play a card that doesn't belong to Acedia she gains a stack of Sleepiness. This buff does nothing on its own, and instead is used as token-fuel for a couple of her cards. In fights, meanwhile, she can choose an enemy hero and force them to skip the first round of the fight - they can't attack, but also can't be attacked. Note that this ability can't leave you with no targets to attack, so it can't be used if there's only one enemy and will end if her target is the only enemy left alive (notwithstanding Digo weirdness).

Her Sleepiness mechanic, coupled with her SP discounts, make Acedia a very versatile support who can be picked alongside any carry and into any team comp. She won't really excel (other than entirely shutting down Gillis), but she'll provide decent support for no real investment, and that's pretty much unique in this game.

Cards:
Choose an enemy hero within 2 hexes and attack them. If the attack hits, it deals no damage, but the target cannot participate in fights until the end of the Deployment Phase.

The only one of Acedia's cards you'll have to spend SP to play, and not coincidentally, the only one you'll never want to play. Its only effect is to prevent an enemy from fighting for the purposes of creating an isolated fight, but 3 SP is far too much to be paying for such an effect - especially since Acedia's passive provides a low grade version of the same effect - and what's worse is there's a chance for it to miss. Basically never play this.

Choose an allied hero (global). Expend all Sleepiness stacks to grant the target 35 gold per stack.

This would be a fairly lacklustre card if not for the mastery to make it cost 0 if you have 10+ stacks; with it, it's literally printing free gold. 10 Sleepiness stacks is not hard to get to - it's not like you want to be dumping SP into Acedia's cards, after all - so just keep this in hand until you've spent all your SP then pick a carry to enrich. It should go without saying (but I'mma say it anyway because I'm like that), but never play this if it costs SP.


Remove 5 stacks of Sleepiness (or as many as you have, if you have less). The next card you play costs 1 less for each stack removed.

This card effectively costs gold to play (since you're spending Sleepiness, which you'd otherwise be using to give gold via Alarm Clock). That said, it's still a pretty solid card, even if you're not getting the full value out of it (which you often won't be). Its best use is in heavily discounting an initiation card so that you can get a sizeable amount of setup done before starting a fight; this approach is aided by masteries, which make this card give you 1 SP so long as you're removing the full 5 stacks. For some inexplicable reason they changed the spelling on the card with v3.1 to the wrong spelling.

Interactions:
Digo - Acedia has all kinds of weird interactions with Digo. For more information, check Digo's entry.

Gillis - While Acedia shuts down other first round effects like Reinhardt and Lubos, Gillis is the most important one to keep in mind because she entirely negates Gillis' entire kit. Not only does she remove her from the first round, during which she's all but immune to damage, but this also prevents Gillis from gaining AP in the second round as well. It's also worth highlighting that if the Gillis is on your team you should hold Alarm Clock until you can first play Charm so that you get double the gold for your team.

First round vs first attack - It's important to differentiate between hero effects which proc on the first round, as opposed to ones which proc off the first attack. Gillis' effect, for example, works in the first round and so Acedia will negate it entirely. By contrast, heroes like Felyn, Hakuna, Lan etc. all work off their first attack - so Acedia won't negate their ability, just postpone it by a round.
v2.1 | Acedia
Not a lot of change here aside from a weak Variant.

Variant 1

Changed - Acedia gains a sleepiness stack each time you play a card belonging to another hero at the beginning of even numbered rounds.

Hypothetically could be an upgrade if you spend all your deployment phases playing just a small number of expensive cards (such as initiation cards); in practice though you'll almost always play a lot more cards than that, especially if you're not an idiot and so have drafted a lot of cost reduction Match Traits and Tactics cards. Avoid.
v3.1 | Acedia
v3.1 Updates: No changes other than noting that Eureka is spelled wrong now, which is weird. I get that they probably rely on machine translation, which is understandable for a small studio, but you'd think they'd at least make sure they're not actively making things worse when they apply changes.

Item build: Support. Acedia has no effects which interact with items in any way, and she's got a support's low gold income, so throw her whatever cheap and useful items you can. Default to tank items if there aren't enough good support ones, since she can at least take a punch for your carry if all else fails.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing. Cards like Tactical Adjustment and Thinking Tank are obviously amazing for her, giving a stack of Sleepiness for free - but if you aren't running every copy of those that you can no matter who you're playing, you're doing something wrong.

Funnelling: Nope. She's a support so she's not the target for your bonus stats, and her cards are specifically designed to not be spammed.

Rejected gags:
Yawn. For a character I like so much, she really is kinda boring - there's not much material to pull gags from. Kinda jealous of her having a water cooler in her room, though.
Beverly
Unfortunately, despite substantial studio funding, Beverly the Builder was a flop which didn't come close to surpassing the original.

Name: Beverly

Position: Support

Role: Support

Mastery choices:
Renovation provides an additional 5 AP / Renovation provides an additional 30 health

Renovation provides an additional 2 AP per stack of Mech Mastery / Renovation provides an additional 20 health per stack of Mech Mastery

Surge also searches Renovation into your hand / Maintenance costs 1 more, but restores 3 more health and increases max health by 3

Itemisation: Support tank

Synergies: Anything that does well with extra AP and health (notably Zealot, Kamaitachi)

Counters: None

Countered by: None

Summary: Strong stat-buffing support with some minor utility.

Analysis: Beverly is a support whose power lies in her cards. In your first Deployment Phase you can select a target, and from then on, Beverly can find her target's cards, buff their AP and health, and in fights, cleanse debuffs from them (not, as the tooltip erroneously suggests, from her attack target - that would be rather useless). Of course, this heavy utility comes at a price; her only assistance other than for her target consists of a low grade tower heal and poke.

Despite being quite tunnel-visioned on who she's supporting, Beverly winds up being extremely versatile in who she can pair with and lane against. She has no counters, and there are plenty of heroes in the game who scale nicely off one or both of her granted stats (or, failing that, just throwing it on an ADC will work okay). She is also quite SP-intensive since you need to play Renovation frequently to really see it shine.

Beverly is a safe pick you can grab early in the draft for security; she will rarely underperform unless you find yourself unable to designate a target early on as a result of a gank on red side, which can cause problems (but not insurmountable ones).

Incidentally, Beverly seems to have been severely overlooked for quality control - her debuff removal passive states 'target' instead of 'designated target', Renovation talks about stacks of 'proficiency' which don't exist anywhere else in her kit (meaning Mech Mastery), and the Mech Mastery tooltip refers to 'Renovation-T' which doesn't exist. At least they fixed that last one with v3.1.

Cards:
Pick a turret and restore 3 health to it. It then attacks all enemy heroes, dealing the turret's damage and ignoring armour.

A cheap but mildly effective card, nothing it does is particularly groundbreaking. The heal, while useful in some cases, is no more than clearing up a little bit of chip damage; the tower attacks, meanwhile, quickly get outscaled to the point of barely doing anything. Still, for 1 SP it works okay, and since it can't miss it can help a little prior to big fights.



Search one of the target's cards.

Underwhelming in its vanilla form, just searching a single card is a little underwhelming when you're paying SP for it. It gets much better with masteries, as it also searches Renovation which you'll be wanting to play frequently, or with a discount for obvious reasons.





Pick an ally as Beverly's Designated Target, then search Renovation into your hand. Removed when played.

Barely even a card, this doesn't actually exist in your deck. Instead, one is generated in your first deployment phase and deleted once played. Note that you can't pick an ally that isn't alive, so early ganks can hurt if you're on red side.




Gives an ally 5 + (3 x stacks) AP and 50 + (30 x stacks) max health permanently, then goes to the draw pile and Beverly gains a stack of Mech Mastery.

With masteries can go as high as 10 + (5 x stacks) AP or 80 + (50 x stacks) health. You'll generally want to take the AP, since your best targets are people who have multiple attacks or at least good crit scaling. As this card gets stronger each time you play it due to gaining stacks, you want to play it as often as possible; this is aided by it returning to your draw pile instead of going to discard after being played. A shame Beverly can't designate herself...

Interactions:
Good targets - While any hero can make use of the stats Beverly offers, obviously some heroes are better than others. Zealot is probably the single best user in the game - they get triple AP scaling from their clones and really like the extra health due to their tendency to eat hits. Other good targets include:
Kamaitachi (multiple attacks and melee so needs more health)
Qube (ditto)
Cubey (extra health early provides a multiplying effect)
Bunu Shan (good AP scaling and likes Maintenance supplying five hits)
Merisi (multiple attacks and uses health well)

Debuff removal - while easily overlooked (and frankly pretty low impact), Beverly does remove debuffs on her Designated Target whenever she attacks (whether she hits or not). Won't usually matter much, but can be useful into heroes like Big Foot where debuffs are inevitable and stacking. Note that this does now give her a soft counter in the form of Felicity, who will slap your target for trying to cleanse them (if she's decided to pick on them, anyway).
v2.1 | Beverly
Again not much change - her Variants just shift around a fairly small part of her kit.

Variant 1

Removed - After each of Beverly's actions in a fight, dispel one random debuff from her designated target.

Gained - After each of Beverly's actions in a fight, her designated target restores health equal to 80% of Beverly's AP.

Depending on the comp this is either a straight buff or a minor downgrade - if you've got things to cleanse, you want them cleansed, but if you don't then the heal is obviously better than nothing. Doesn't wind up being very impactful though - there's absolutely no reason to build AP on Beverly, and she's a support anyway so she doesn't get much gold.

Variant 2

Removed - After each of Beverly's actions in a fight, dispel one random debuff from her designated target.

Gained - Beverly's designated target gains 20 armour.

Pretty much exactly the same calculation as Variant 1 - worse if you've got debuffs to dispel, better if you don't. This Variant can be relatively good when you're buffing someone other than your ADC, since it's the only one of the three that works even if Beverly isn't in the fight.
v3.1 | Beverly
v3.1 Updates: Tweaks here and there. Variants got a tiny bit stronger since they remove the Felicity counter, but barely matters.

Item build: Support. Much like Acedia, you've got nothing that works with item procs, so just build whatever matters that you think you can afford. Unlike Acedia, Beverly is at least melee, so tank items will go a little further.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing. Renovation already goes into the deck instead of the draw pile, and that's the only card you really care about.

Funnelling: Beverly funnels, she is not funnelled. Tutoring Renovation can help a little at times, but single card searches aren't very common.

Rejected gags:
Despite clearly having a feminine profile, face and name, I think she's a guy every time I glance at her. That's not a beard, me, it's a scarf. A SCARF.

Judging by the cans on the floor, Beverly and Quinn drink the same brand of iced tea. Either that or someone got lazy... presumably whoever's meant to clean up the trash around the Archive.
Blocker
Half robot. Half turtle. Entirely inexplicable.

Name: Blocker

Position: Support

Role: Support-tank

Mastery choices:
Gain 2 Presence and 200 max health / Gain 35 max health per level and 1 Presence

Interference Field reduces cost by 1 / If Blocker's partner enters a fight with him at below 60% max health, they gain 15 more armour
N.B. Game incorrectly states Signal Enhancement cost reduced by 1

Itemisation: Tank

Synergies: Anyone who wants to be funnelled; Felyn and Cubey are good targets, or Dylan for general purpose buffing

Counters: None

Countered by: None

Summary: Extremely strong support and tank for facilitating carries

Analysis: Blocker, despite its bizarre appearance, is one of - if not the - best supports in the game. This is primarily due to his cards, which are incredibly good for searching out an individual athlete's cards; his battle effects are okay, but quite low impact. In your first Deployment Phase, Blocker spawns an Interference Field card into your hand, which you then use to designate a partner for it. This partner then receives the effects of Blockers cards. Additionally, if both Blocker and his partner enter a fight they each gain 10 armour, and whenever Blocker takes damage (whether in a fight or field) he grants a small shield to his partner. The armour effect was removed from the base Variant as of (at least) v3.1.

While you draft Blocker for his cards, he is still perfectly serviceable in the context of a fight. 10 armour isn't a huge amount but can definitely make a difference, and while the shield is small (6 x level), it procs frequently enough to add up to a decent amount. Blocker is also a pretty solid tank, and so can fill the frontline role fairly well (albeit restricted by the support role's lack of gold).

The one circumstance in which Blocker is not a good choice is in a team comp which doesn't have any particularly spammable cards. Frankly this is rare, and indicates a major error made at draft. Even so, Blocker can find some value by using his search functionality to find single-use Tactics cards like Warm Up and Hot Hands for each athlete in turn, thinning your deck so you've got a good variety of (apparently mediocre) cards in hand at any given time.

Blocker winds up being a slightly situational pick, but nonetheless one you'll find yourself using frequently (if you like winning, at least) due to being the only hero with such unparalleled searching. It's also one half of the brutal Felyn-Blocker lane combo, if you like dumpstering bot lane so hard that other heroes barely even register on the damage chart.

Cards:
Starts with 1 token and gains 1 more per 20 rounds. Requires spending a token to play. When played, search all cards belonging to Blocker's partner into your hand.

This is the big one, and the main reason you bring Blocker. Digging out every single copy of a hero's cards enables a huge number of power plays for heroes who get persistently stronger every time you play their cards; the only reason not to play this is if you already have good plays in hand and so don't want to burn 2 SP on it. Note that as well as finding hero cards, it also searches Tactics cards, so you can burn through your single-use Tactics cards at the same time (ideally via some kind of hand discount).

The SP cost of the next card played belonging to Blocker's partner is reduced by 2.

Much simpler, but discounts are always welcome. It can often be somewhat rare to find a card you want to play that gets the full discount, but even saving 1 SP is still a bonus. Happily, Blocker's favourite partner (Felyn) has a nice expensive card right there...




Target an allied hero to make them Blocker's partner. They then heal for 20% of their max health and search one of their cards into hand.

Created at your first Deployment Phase rather than starting in your deck, but since it isn't removed when played this is functionally identical to searching it at game start (aside from a small difference in hand size). If all else is equal you're best off playing this on Blocker's ADC so that they get the benefit of its passive if they get ganked, but this is very much a secondary consideration compared to who'll use the search functions best. Note that since it isn't consumed when played, you can swap Blocker's partner to someone else later into the game if you want to.

Interactions:
Felyn - This partnership is so good it deserves an entry all to itself (and I'll repeat myself in the comps section because damnit it's deserved). These two are a match made in heaven. Felyn wants nothing more than to spam her cards every single Deployment Phase so as to stack up energy and start dumpstering people, and that's exactly what Blocker does. It then protects her if the enemy team is so audacious as to try to gank them. It even gives her a shield if ever it takes damage on the field - which generates more energy. Disgusting.

Other search targets - While Felyn is the MVP pairing, there are plenty of other heroes that love to spam their cards for strong effects. Good examples include Cubey, Frank, Kid, Qube... Really, a lot of good choices.

Dylan - Deserves a post of his own because Dylan is very much a fallback option. If you want to run carries that don't have amazing cards to spam, you can take Dylan in the mid lane and pair Blocker to him instead. That then gives you access to Dylan's buffs on demand, which he can spam at your carry of choice to buff them up.
v2.1 | Blocker
Once again, no real difference other than the Variants weakening the Felyn-Blocker pairing (though not enough to knock them out of the 'gamebreakingly OP' slot).

Variant 1

Removed - When Blocker takes damage, whether on the field or in fights, grant a shield to his Interference Field target equal to 6 x Blocker's level.

Gained - When Blocker and his Interference Field target are both in a fight, they both gain 10 armour. When Blocker takes damage in a fight, his target is shielded for 35 and gains 1 armour until the end of the fight.

Shifts Blocker's power into keeping his target alive for longer fights - the shield size will generally be weaker past the early game, so you're relying on the bonus armour to matter. Does synergise well when you're using Blocker with a big chunky beatstick since the armour sticks around even if Blocker dies (Cubey, Frank etc.), but is generally worse when paired with an ADC since they can't take more than a couple of hits with or without a few more points of armour. Either way, you're taking Blocker for his cards, not his in-fight effects.

Variant 2

Removed - When Blocker takes damage, whether on the field or in fights, grant a shield to his Interference Field target equal to 6 x Blocker's level.

Gained - Blocker's Interference Field target gains 15 armour, doubled during fights.

The most hands-off Variant, that armour goes straight onto the target and stays there whether Blocker is around or not. Much like Variant 1, better for non-bot-laners, but this one does at least give a chunky 30 armour right from the start of fights, which can make a difference between survival and death for an ADC. Would be a good pick to protect a squishy from Raven if the AI ever picked him.
v3.1 | Blocker
v3.1 Updates: Minor changes, most notably that the armour on his base Variant is gone (pretty sure it was gone as of v2.1 but I never updated the main entry).

Item build: Pure Tank. Unlike most supports, Blocker both has tank base stats and also gives some shielding to its support when it takes a hit; you're incentivised to pick up whatever Presence you can to keep the attacks aimed at it, plus armour to keep it upright. Aim for the cheaper tank items though, don't go trying to first-item a "Mockery" Textbook.

Reserve Tactics: Reckless Assault can generate shields for your supported target. The amount of shield is pretty insignificant... but Felyn only cares about getting a shield, not how big it is. There's a joke in there somewhere.

Funnelling: Funneller, not funnellee. Which is a word now, I just decided.

Rejected gags:
Considering all Blocker ever does in fights is bite things, I have to wonder what all those doodads all over it actually are. The searchlights in particular seem like some glaring feature creep on the part of whoever built it. Then again, if they were sane they probably wouldn't have turned their radio tower into a fuggen turtle.

Or maybe he's a tortoise. Maybe it can be whatever it wants to be. So long as it's one of those, I mean, let's not get crazy here.
Charon
Accusations that Charon taking over Thanatos' responsibilities as well as his own have been met with stoic silence. And a scythe to the neck.

Name: Charon

Position: Support

Role: Support

Mastery choices:
Death Finger increases damage taken by a further 5% and increases bounty by an additional 50 / Death Finger costs 1 less and a second copy is added to the deck

Gain an additional 1.5 AP and 38.5 health per level / Gain an additional 3 AP and 22.5 max health per level

Itemisation: Support-tank

Synergies: High damage squishies; Digo (if outmatched)

Counters: Burst damage assassins

Countered by: None

Summary: A support who can keep your team alive when they should die.

Analysis: Charon is an extremely unique support, not least because he has no actual effects until an allied hero is reduced to 0 health. The first time this happens in any given fight the ally is reduced to 1 health instead of 0 and your entire team gains the Walking Dead buff and gains 25% AP. This buff makes your team straight up immune to death, as well as increasing their AP by 25%; if an enemy hero is killed while the buff persists, everyone heals for 50 x Charon's level. Each ally individually loses their buff after taking an action; note that the Walking Dead buff has a separate 25% AP buff to the team-wide one, so it's 50% until the buff expires.

This effect of course makes Charon a good pick in any game where you might expect your heroes to die frequently - in particular into burst assassins like Lan, who can find themselves unable to pick up kills reliably enough to snowball effectively. What's more, whenever an ally dies (globally), Charon generates a Value of Death card in hand; this grants gold to a targeted ally (albeit at the expense of a bounty). This allows you to mitigate deaths quite effectively, particularly if you're behind in multiple lanes, to focus your gold into whichever lane is actually doing well.

By contrast, Charon is pretty much useless in any game where you expect to be ahead. Without getting any value out of Walking Dead, all you're really left with are a couple of decent, but overcosted, cards. As such, rather than slotting into a specific team comp, Charon is best picked when your athletes are substantially worse than your opponents.

Cards:
Target a hero in a straight line from Charon. If they're an ally, move them to Charon's hex; if they're an enemy, Charon attacks them and moves them to his hex if the attack hits.

Expensive for what it does, but quite versatile; you can use this to create lopsided fights (on either side of the map), to pull in enemies when you're already ahead enough to win fights, or even (if you're feeling particularly malicious) to just pull an opponent out of lane so they have to recall while your laner beats on their tower. Note it's less reliable when used on enemies due to needing an attack roll.

Target an enemy hero (globally). That hero gains a 100 gold bounty and takes 25% increased damage until they die.

Very expensive, but tremendously valuable due to lasting indefinitely until the target dies. As with much of Charon's kit this is particularly useful when you're behind, as you can stack the effect on multiple enemies to scrape out a desperate last teamfight. Despite being an expensive card, avoid the mastery which makes it cheaper - this also adds a second copy into your deck, which you don't need and which will just weigh down your deck.


Spawned in hand when an ally dies, removed when played. Target an allied hero; they gain 150 gold and a 150 gold bounty.

Somewhat limited in its effectiveness due to only showing up when someone dies; thanks to the bounty, if your targeted ally subsequently dies the enemy will get about as much value from this as you do. That said, can help you pull back a deficit by giving a single carry a decent chunk of gold and trusting that they won't die.



Interactions:
Digo - The only real noteworthy interaction Charon has is with Digo, specifically in games where you're expecting to lose lanes heavily. Digo, like Charon, is good at stalling out a losing game; he's also about as safe as you can make a carry, even in losing games. You can therefore use ally deaths to fuel Digo via Value of Death, as he's relatively unlikely to give over the bounty and will get the most use out of the gold.

Stuns - Notably, the Walking Dead buff expires when the target takes an action. If they're stunned, they don't take an action. This makes Charon a very soft counter to Tiger Boy (who's more likely to stun them at the appropriate time), and makes him a slightly better support for Niels (who self-stuns himself an awful lot for someone you want doing damage).
v2.1 | Charon
Once again, not a lot of change. Meh.

Variant 1

Removed - The Walking Dead buff grants 25% bonus AP in addition to its other effects.

Gained - Whenever an allied hero dies (anywhere), that hero gains 15 AP, stacking up to 5 times.

An extremely minor sidegrade Variant - you lose the 25% AP from Walking Dead (note, this is separate to the 25% AP buff which lasts for the duration of the fight - you get that and an extra 25% for the one round with the vanilla version). In exchange you get a small amount of AP every time you die for the entire game. In general this is probably a downgrade, but only a very small one - the 25% AP is relatively impactful but only lasts for one round (and only if Charon is in the fight), while the 15 AP is more likely to apply but is generally too small to be relevant. Might become a relatively strong Variant if your team habitually gets the crap kicked out of them, I suppose, but if that's the case you've got bigger issues.
v3.1 | Charon
v3.1 Updates: A bunch of fixes to the entry - apparently I was flagging pretty hard by the time I got to writing this one. Also added a note on stuns vis-a-vis Charon's passive.

Item build: Support. As with many other supports, his effects are agnostic of his own stats. Still fill his otherwise empty slots with tank items, remembering that it doesn't matter if he dies or not since his passive triggers whether it's him dying (or rather, not dying) or anyone else.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing.

Funnelling: Nope. Nothing he has suggests 'give me stats', and his cards are too situational to be worth spamming.

Rejected gags:
Given Charon's role in mythology, presumably his passive is just him declaring that he's on break when he's supposed to cart his team's souls off to the underworld. Apparently ferrymen have a really good union.

Sure, everybody talks about the guy ferrying the dead to the afterlife. The guy who has to bring them back when they respawn 3-6 rounds later? No credit at all.
Dylan
Psst. Hey kid, wanna buy some drugs? No? Wanna sell me some clothes then? - Dylan

Name: Dylan

Position: Mid / Support

Role: Support

Mastery choices:
Dylan's drugs cost 50 less gold / Dylan's drugs are 25% more effective

While Balance is in hand, playing a drug card adds a token to it. Dylan gains 34% farming efficiency for each token / While Balance is in hand, playing a drug card adds a token to it. Allies except Dylan gain 0.5% farming efficiency for each token

Itemisation: Mage

Synergies: Pretty much anyone who likes stats; anyone who can search cards for him

Counters: None

Countered by: None

Summary: A creepy mofo who provides a wide variety of buffs to specified heroes.

Analysis: Dylan is a creepy mofo. Unfortunately, he's also one of the better buff supports in the game, which means you'll probably have to tolerate him.

Dylan's effects broadly come from his three drug cards, each of which costs him gold to play in exchange for giving a buff to a targeted ally (which can be himself). Fortunately, his Balance card negates the gold cost, rendering his drugs much more effective.

In a fight, meanwhile, Dylan brings one further buff - Strengthening Potion. This targets one allied hero (again, can be Dylan himself) and grants them 30/35% increased crit chance and crit damage, as well as bonus AP equal to 20/25% of Dylan's AP. This is arguably the strongest part of Dylan's kit - there are plenty of heroes who interact positively with crit, and plenty more who wind up with very high AP numbers due to their own passives and can therefore use crit well. In a pinch, he can also just target himself to turn himself into a passable, if not particularly powerful, mage.

Dylan finds himself in a slightly awkward position meta-wise, however. You'll most want to play him in the support role simply because that's what he does; the trouble being that that means he's competing for a slot against other, less awkward, supports (most notably Beverly). As an alternative he can be played in mid lane, but he doesn't really use the extra solo lane gold all that well (his only multiplier being the 25% he gives to someone via Strengthening Potion). In the end, then, you'll pick Dylan if you really want buff support but Beverly is picked or banned, or if you want to really double down on buffing a single hero.

Cards:
Can't be played. While in hand, Dylan's other cards don't cost gold to play. When you play one of Dylan's other cards, this card moves to the far left of your hand.

This card is entirely necessary if you want to run Dylan without him making himself completely useless in the process. With masteries, happily, it actually lets Dylan generate more gold from playing his cards (don't pick the supportive option, it's less efficient). Don't feel like you can't play his other cards unless this is in hand, however - you picked Dylan for buffs, so play the buffs. Named after what everyone insists all game developers are bad at.

Causes you to remain in the Matrix
Costs 200 gold. Target an allied hero and grant them 20/25% farming efficiency; this effect is lost on death.

Curious that this buff is lost on death, unlike the others; presumably it's to prevent you from search-spamming it to generate absurd gold amounts, though frankly you can do that anyway. Arguably the best use is to throw it on a tank, as they're relatively unlikely to die to ganks at least. Digo is another good option.


Costs 200 gold. Target an allied hero to heal them for 400/500 health and increase their max health by 200/250.

Simple and effective. While you can use this to buff tanks, this is generally an inefficient usage; tanks get a lot of health from gold scaling already, so the extra isn't really going to have a huge impact. It's generally better to instead give this to your damage carries to keep them alive for longer in fights (unless, of course, you have a strong health scaler like Frank or Cubey).



Costs 200 gold. Target an allied hero to grant them 20/25 AP. Dylan gains 10/12 AP.

Not a huge amount of extra AP, but it adds up - especially when targeting heroes with multiple attacks. Note that since it also buffs Dylan's AP you get quite a lot of mileage overall - with masteries, 25 for the target, 12 for Dylan, and then another 3 from Strengthening Potion.




Interactions:
Search Effects - Since all of Dylan's cards are buffs, and he really wants Balance in hand while playing them, Dylan is a particularly good target for search effects. Blocker is, of course, the best source of these - though this does leave you in the slightly odd position of supporting a support so they support someone else...

Zealot - Particularly notable as a good target for buffs of all descriptions, particularly Dylan's. Double-buffing Zealot makes for a pretty potent team comp (see comp suggestions section for more on this).
v2.1 | Dylan
Ehhh. Some small benefits from a few of the items (Archmage Hat is pretty good for him, at least in mid), but on the other hand, his Variant just weakens him. Win some lose some I guess. Still hasn't found any clothing.

Variant 1

Changed - Strengthening Potion grants 20% 15% of Dylan's AP, 30% 20% crit chance and 30% 20% crit damage.

A straight up nerf. The numbers are big enough that this is impactful, particularly the loss of 10% crit; having said that, Dylan still does what you drafted him to do (buff someone up with cards as well as in fights), so it's not a dealbreaker. Shouldn't completely push you away, but if you were already on the fence about drafting him this could be the deciding point.

Having now playtested the Variant more, I can confirm there is a difference - Dylan only applies his Strengthening Potion effect when he participates in fights with the base Variant, while he applies it globally with this one. Matters a little if you're running a skirmish-heavy comp, but skirmishing and stats-funnellers don't mix all that well.
v3.1 | Dylan
v3.1 Updates: Some changes, most notably that Balance's mastery was buffed to now provide 4% farming efficiency per token, up from 3%. While not huge, it matters a lot over the course of a longer game. Also note that I now realise there is a difference with the Variant after all, so apparently I'm just stupid (although the terrible description should share some of the blame).

Item build: Support-Mage. Grab whatever support items you think you need, then fill the rest out with solid AP items - Dylan likes AP for his Strengthening Potion. Balance's farm efficiency buff is helpful for allowing you to generate sufficient gold even from the support role.

Reserve Tactics: The Patient Waiting family are pretty useful for keeping Balance in hand, particularly early on when your deck is full of Tactics cards waiting to be cycled.

Funnelling: Tutoring isn't terrible, allowing you to find Balance (and subsequently find the drugs to play with Balance). Don't throw your bonus stats at him, though, unless you've got nobody else to give them to; the whole reason Red Powder buffs Dylan as well as his target is so you're not encouraged to give it to Dylan to work with his Potion.

Rejected gags:
Okay, so Quinn teaches us that gambling is fun, while Dylan teaches us that drugs are great so long as they're being given to you for free. I'm starting to think these devs aren't the best influences...

Patch v4.0 : Dylan reforms, puts some clothes on and sells licensed pharmaceutical products from a properly labelled carrying case. Calling it right now.
Fatty White
Fatty White, huh. That's what you're gonna call me. You don't see any problems with that. Right. Excuse me while I call my agent. - Richard 'Fatty' Q. Whiteman Esq.

Name: Fatty White

Position: Top / Mid / Support

Role: Tank

Mastery choices:
If Hail hits a champion they lose 10 armour for 10 rounds. Does not stack. / Hail repeats one additional time

Gain 35 health per level and 1 Presence / Gain 200 max health and 2 Presence

Itemisation: Tank

Synergies: None

Counters: Targeted assassins, debuff-oriented comps

Countered by: Multi-attackers, particularly Felyn

Summary: Unimpressive tank with an armour buff.

Analysis: Fatty White, as well as an even more stupid name than Tiger Boy, is a tank whose main feature is the Mini Snowman buff. He can apply this outside of fights, applies one stack to all allies on entering a fight, and applies a stack to the lowest health ally after each action. Mini Snowman removes all debuffs from the target when applied, and grants 30 armour per stack for the next hit the target suffers, then vanishes.

The trouble is, while armour is nice, Fatty White really doesn't bring enough of it to the table to be worth talking about. He functionally protects his ADC (who is usually the lowest health target) from a single hit periodically; the rest of his team get nothing past the opening stack. Meanwhile, he brings nothing else to the table except bulk and the fact that he removes debuffs when applying stacks. This debuff removal actually winds up being the most important part of his kit - while situational, it's typically a lot more impactful than a small amount of armour, and can shut down some strategies which involve debuffing enemies before objective fights.

As a result, Fatty White winds up being simply underwhelming in every respect. The only effects he brings to the team have no scaling, so you don't want to run him in a solo lane - there are far better tanks for that - which means he's relegated to sitting in the support role and throwing his ADC armour/debuff removal. This does not compare well to supports like Blocker, Beverly or even Tivie, all of whom provide a lot more assistance to a specific carry, and to your team in general. Even if all you want is a fat support-tank, even Peter does that job better (if Blocker is banned out). Avoid.

Cards:
Attack an enemy hero (global). If it hits, they lose 20 armour until the end of the next fight.

Basically Wukong's Bludgeon Bash but with no actual AP behind it. Still, armour shred is helpful, so this is actually a pretty good card. Try to play it as close to an objective fight or gank as possible, because your opponent can clear the debuff by starting a fight themselves.




Choose a lane and attack the outermost hero or turret on that lane three times. If an attack hits a hero they get knocked back 1 hex.

3 SP for 3 attacks would be middling at the best of times, let alone being thrown by a hero that hits like a wet paper towel. Could be of some occasional use for pushing down an extremely low health tower by shoving its laner away, but that's about it.




Give an allied hero 3 stacks of Mini Snowman.

This card has the same issue that the buff in general has - it only lasts for one hit. It's all well and good throwing armour around, but when it crumbles on contact it's not going to be particularly impactful over a longer fight. That said, you picked Fatty White for some reason, so you might just be stuck playing this garbage for want of anything better to do.




Interactions:
Nothing particularly special. Gained a new minor counter in Felicity since he cleanses her debuff for her.
v2.1 | Fatty White
Already an unimpressive tank, and doesn't get any better with the update. Winter is not, in fact, coming.

Variant 1

Removed - At the start of fights, Fatty White applies Mini Snowman to all allied units.

Changed - After each action, Fatty White applies Mini Snowman to the 1 2 allied units with the lowest health.

This is pretty much entirely a sidegrade, trading skirmish power for staying power. Probably should be considered a slight buff since he's able to cleanse two targets per action, improving his chances of clearing an important debuff from a specific target, but really doesn't add up to much. Paradoxically, shifts his power around skirmish-wise since he loses the single-action Snowman but gives it to two people per round, meaning he benefits from fewer attacks being thrown.
v3.1 | Fatty White
v3.1 Updates: Minor tweaks, nothing major. He remains pretty much garbage tier.

Item build: Support-Tank. You're not playing him outside support, so as usual, pick up the support items you need and then round it out with tank items.

Reserve Tactics: Consider Focus so you can get rid of his garbage cards. Unfortunately there aren't any Tactics cards for getting rid of a garbage hero.

Funnelling: Definitely not.

Rejected gags:
Who even puts a belt and jewelled gloves on a snowman anyway? That's just asking for trouble.

Okay, he probably builds those mini-snowmen, maybe even using parts of his own body... but where does he get the gingerbread? CONTINUITY!
Paisai
The only reason Paisai is willing to support heroes indiscriminately is there aren't any bandicoots[crashbandicoot.fandom.com] available to assist.

Name: Paisai

Position: Support

Role: Support

Mastery choices:
Barbarian Runes draws 1 additional card, whether hitting or not / Barbarian Runes costs 1 more but its range increases by 1

Itemisation: Support

Synergies: Multi-attackers, Merisi (tank + multiattack)

Counters: None

Countered by: Glass cannon comps

Summary: Solid support providing AP to your team.

Analysis: Paisai is a strong general-purpose support providing a raft of helpful effects through his strong card selection. In fights, meanwhile, he provides a simple team-wide buff - every ally gains AP equal to 2.5 x Paisai's level (with masteries) after every 5 actions. Note that this is every 5 actions, rather than turns - multi-attacking heroes will stack it up much more quickly. This means heroes like Kamaitachi and Merisi have a nice synergy alongside Paisai - their repeated attacks stack his passive more quickly, and in turn benefit from the increased AP.

Paisai's main weakness is he doesn't really excel in any particular area, and in particular, doesn't really pair especially well with any specific ADC. Where Blocker loves to team with Felyn and Acedia with BaJie, Paisai is much more general; this lets him slot neatly into a comp, but doesn't let you really accelerate a hero outside of fights.

The overall result is that Paisai is a middle-tier support; you can pick him happily if you don't want to focus on bot lane or if you're looking for a more general teamfight-oriented comp, but he doesn't tend to as work well in strategies involving funnelling a specific hero (though he can still work). He does also function better in tankier teams as fights stretch longer, allowing him to stack his passive and off-set the tanks' relatively low AP.

Cards:
Heal an allied hero for 30% of their max health, then search your deck for any card and add it to your hand.

A nice universally-useful search tool with attached heal. Importantly this is weaker than many similar search effects because it doesn't allow you to search in the discard; as such, it can't be used to recycle cards for repeated play. Make sure you check that the card you want is in the deck before you play this.



Costs 1 token to play; starts with 2 tokens and adds 1 any time a hero dies. When played, target an allied hero; they attack all enemies within 1 hex. Draw a card for each hit.

Extremely useful general-purpose card draw and poke tool. With masteries you'll always guarantee this card will at least cycle itself for free (avoid the cost and range increase, it's less reliable) and more likely will draw multiple cards and deal some damage at no expense. While the card does use a token system this is almost never relevant because tokens are gained whenever a hero dies globally, and the chances of having no kills for an extended period are usually pretty slim.

Discard 1 card. Until the end of the round, any initiation card you play has a 1 round increased duration.

One of the few discard effects in the game, this is particularly useful if you're running a tankier comp since you'll need the extra duration to secure kills. Synergises nicely with Paisai's passive, and has some small synergies with the handful of heroes that want you to discard things (Xiangxi Ke, Kaka).




Interactions:
Merisi - While Paisai has good synergy with all multi-attackers, Merisi merits specific note due to being both a multi-attacker and a tank. He'll not only give bonus actions to help Paisai stack, but will usually hang around long enough to use them and gets a lot of benefit from extra AP. The main drawback is that Merisi usually wants a buffer on the team as well, which means you'll have to run him top lane so you can take Dylan in mid.

Glass Cannons - Paisai has natural anti-synergy with, and is soft countered by, comps with high offence and low defence. He wants fights to drag on for a longer period so he can stack his passive up for his team, and glass cannons on either side will tend to decrease fight duration one way or another. They also tend to get less benefit from his AP - it 20 AP matters a lot more when you've got 100 AP than when you've got 1000.

Small Mercies - Paisai may not have major synergy with any specific bot laner, but there's a few he likes more than others. Elemi gets a double attack to stack his passive faster, Bunu Shan appreciates the free field attacks to drop Serenity stacks, and Shougong Lei appreciates the free field attacks so he can actually hit something without spending half your SP.
v2.1 | Paisai
One of the few supports with a clear buff Variant. That's about it though - new itemisation continues to unimpress for supports.

Variant 1

Removed - After every 5 actions Paisai grants bonus AP equal to his level to all allied units.

Gained - After every 5 actions Paisai grants bonus crit chance equal to 0.5% x his level to all allied units. If an allied unit is already at 100% crit when receiving this effect, they instead gain 0.2% x Paisai's level as crit damage.

A very, very nice upgrade for Paisai. For starters, granting crit chance/damage will almost always be worth more than flat AP - the former scales with the target's damage, so unless you're a tank you're going to get more value. More importantly however, this effect has a very large positive impact on heroes with crit interactions, of which there are quite a few. Aurelio, Quinn, Manta and Lan all love getting extra crit - Paisai's pick rate increases. Pushes Paisai up to arguably S tier. Sorry, past-me, he's already there now. Still, yeah, this Variant is great.
v3.1 | Paisai
v3.1 Updates: No major changes. Rises to S tier because really, he should've been there all along - no counters (aside from Hass, I guess), team-wide support and great cards.

Item build: Support. Once again, no item interactions, so give him whatever you need. Importantly, though, avoid Presence - you want Paisai sticking around to stack up his buffs as long as possible.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing in particular. If you have a reason to run Focus, though, Paisai's a good user - you can use Elixir to search for the card you don't want to draw to make sure you've got both in hand for Focus. As weird as that is.

Funnelling: Nope. Can be tutored for Barbarian runes, I suppose, if you want to turn one card into maybe more than one.

Rejected gags:
I can't help but feel Paisai's design is racially insensitive in some way, but I don't know enough to actually define it.

Aww, he took the time to make sure his facepaint matches the paint on his skull-stick. That's sweet, in a slightly disturbing way.

I am picking up all kinds of hidden lore by looking at these Archive screens in detail. In Paisai's case, apparently he likes marshmallows enough to store them on sticks in the ground.

I'm hoping his next Variant lets him turn people into squigs[warhammerfantasy.fandom.com].
Palulu
Palulu has wandered far and wide across the world, exploring everywhere she can think of in her quest to find a way to fight that doesn't involve shielding people. So far, she has been unsuccessful.

Name: Palulu

Position: Mid / Support

Role: Support

Mastery choices:
Traveler's Blessing costs 1 more, but applies an additional 100% AP shield and grants the target 10% additional AP / Traveler's Blessing heals 5% more health; when the recipient has full health they gain 15% farming efficiency

Runic Shield applies a 20% larger shield / Runic Shield's attack deals 15% more damage

Itemisation: As much flat AP as possible.

Synergies: Shields (Niels, Bariel, Felyn, Foso)

Counters: Tiger Boy (Shield negating stun)

Countered by: Hass (Shield stealing)

Summary: Middling support who spams shields and not much else.

Analysis: Palulu throws shields. That's basically all she does. She doesn't even attack - instead of attacking, she provides a shield to allies (melee ones unless there are no melees left). Importantly, Palulu also only gets 80% scaling from gold and levels until her mastery is maxed out, giving you a strong incentive to master her if you want to play her.

Since shields can't crit and Palulu is very much a backliner, your best option for itemisation is to stack as much AP as possible on her. More AP means bigger shields, which means her frontline stick around longer to keep her safe. Other than that, there's not really a lot of finesse involved to running Palulu - throw shields on what you want shielded and you're golden.

However, while Palulu is easy to run, she also doesn't really do much. She doesn't allow for proactive plays, nor does she really assist the team in securing kills. All she really does is block damage, and while that's useful, it's usually more useful to actively assist in killing. As such, Palulu sits around the middle tiers - an acceptable pick and can fit into most comps, but there's usually better options available.

Cards:
Give an allied hero a shield equal to 200% of Palulu's AP, and the Traveler's Blessing buff. This buff increases both field hit damage and farming efficiency by 30%, and also restores 15% max health per round, lasting until the target no longer has a shield. Additionally, the target retains shields at the end of fights (max 200% of Palulu's AP).

There's a lot going on with this card, which there kinda has to be for its cost. The one truly effective card Palulu has to offer (albeit one that will eat a chunk of your resources to play), this card ensures that the recipient will stay at full health while laning unless heavily focussed or ganked, while also providing some additional benefits while the shield lasts. Note that as far as the game is concerned, shields are shields - so you can top it up with Palulu's other cards if it's getting whittled down. Under ideal circumstances you'll eventually have this buff active on everyone (though that almost never happens, of course).

Apply a shield equal to 100% of Palulu's AP to all allied heroes. Palulu gets double.

Another pricey card, but providing a shield to your entire team makes it very much worth the cost prior to entering into an objective fight. The total shielding is equivalent to five rounds' worth of Palulu's 'attacks' in-fight, so unless your Palulu is very behind it will be a very welcome buffer for your team. On the other hand, outside of a fight the shields don't really do a whole lot, so you'll only want to play this in the run-up to a big teamfight.


Apply a shield equal to 100% of Palulu's AP to an allied hero; that hero then attacks an enemy within 1 hex. If the target already had a shield when you played this card, you additionally gain 1 SP.

A good follow-up to Palulu's other cards thanks to the SP refund - 1 SP for a shield and an attack is a decent price. Usually isn't worth playing on its own unless you've got nothing else to spend your SP on. Note that despite the ambiguous wording, the attack is based on the target's AP, not Palulu's.



Interactions:
Shields - Palulu gives shields. If that wasn't obvious by now, either you've got issues with comprehension or my Eng Lit degree was a massive waste of time (okay, fine, that one's a given). Aside from the general purpose of blocking damage, a few heroes (notably Bariel) gain substantial benefits when shielded; meanwhile, the fact that shields make heroes immune to stuns has notable interactions with a few other heroes (Niels and Tiger Boy most notably).

Foso - I skipped adding this back in v2.1 because it's really quite obvious, but Foso - the hero who likes shields - likes to play with Palulu, the hero who gives them. Pair them up (not necessarily in the same lane), give Foso Traveler's Blessing early, then throw Runic Shield at her every time it comes into hand. She'll dumpster lane, hit like a truck in fights, and... well, nothing else, but that's all you want.
v2.1 | Palulu
Basically no change here. Extreme sidegrade Variant is about it.

Variant 1

Changed - Palulu's shields are distributed between allied melee/ranged units all allied units.

A pretty tiny change - Palulu's shields on your frontline are weaker, but she stacks some shielding on your backline at the same time to protect your more important carries from incidental damage. Makes very little difference, as the shielding gets diluted too much to actually provide much protection for your backline.
v3.1 | Palulu
v3.1 Updates: Added Foso to the synergies section, if you somehow missed that they work well together.

Item build: Support-Mage. Assuming you're playing Palulu in the support role (which you usually should be), prioritise getting whatever support items you want and then round it out with flat AP; pay attention to her build, because the AI is terrible at itemising her and sometimes decides to give her things which proc off attacks. In mid, just maximise your AP.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing.

Funnelling: Probably not. Can be a halfway decent tutor target if you're running Foso alongside her.

Rejected gags:
On the Archive screen she is in fact looking for trees. She isn't actually a very good explorer.

"Hmm, according to this featureless chunk of wood with an X painted on it... yeah, I have no idea" - Palulu
Peiniang Zhu
Okay, it's easy to get a cheap laugh out of 'Thunder Finger', but it's actually a pretty serious condition. Nothing takes the wind out of your sails while you're getting frisky like a few hundred volts.

Name: Peiniang Zhu

Position: Support

Role: Support

Mastery choices:
Lightning Mark deals 30% more damage / Thunder Finger additionally adds two stacks of Lightning Mark

Lightning Mark deals an extra 5 damage / Lightning Mark deals 30% more damage

Static Lightning cost increases by 1 but adds 3 more stacks of Lightning Mark / Attacks in fights add 2 stacks of Lightning Mark

[N.B. Masteries changed heavily in v3.1 update]

Itemisation: Support-tank

Synergies: Anyone with multiple hits (Felyn, Qube, Kamaitachi etc.) or AoE (Gang notably)

Counters: None

Countered by: Wukong (debuff reflection), Blocker (extra shields)

Summary: Support adding inevitability through extremely low damage debuffs.

Analysis: Peiniang Zhu is, in theory at least, a support that works by adding the Lightning Mark debuff to enemies, causing them to take additional damage whenever they take damage for the rest of the fight. The debuff stacks, being added whenever an enemy takes an action (and, with masteries, from PZ's attacks as well), which should cause fights to slowly tip in their favour.

The problem is, the only thing PZ provides is damage. They give absolutely zero utility of any kind, so you need their damage to be substantial to make up for this - and it simply isn't. The debuff is fairly weak, and what's more, is affected by mitigation. In practice, they wind up not really doing much of anything in fights.

Due to stacking whenever an opponent takes an action, they can act as a minor counter to heroes like Kamaitachi - but again, the Lightning Mark effect simply doesn't do enough to count. What's worse, Lightning Mark is only flat damage with level scaling, so you can't even snowball with it. The overall result is that PZ is a "support" in name only, and not someone you want to be bringing along. If you want damage amp out of the support role, both Crank and Lady Deadfire bring it in greater quantities with more utility to boot.

I would also note that I recommend building PZ with tank items rather than damage items in spite of them being flagged by the game as a mage. The only effect they bring to a fight is Lightning Mark, and that has no AP scaling at all - as such, you're better off building to keep them alive to get more stacks applied than throwing damage on what amounts to a purely vanilla hero who won't generally get much gold in any case. And if they wind up soaking hits, frankly that's more utility than the rest of the kit brings.

v3.1 Update: Disregard the above. Thanks to the Thundercloud buff, Peiniang Zhu is now a fantastic source of damage for next to no investment at all. She still brings no utility, but can apply her debuff reliably enough to consistently place at or near the top of the damage charts in teamfights without requiring any extra resources beyond playing one card four times.

Cards:
Gain 2 stacks of the Thundercloud effect, each adding a stack of Lightning Mark to all enemies when entering a fight. Start with 1 token, gains 1 more token for every 25 rounds, and can only play with a token.

Very expensive for what it does - 3 SP for 3 stacks of Lightning Mark per target is a lot - but still about the best you're going to get out of PZ's cards. And so, of course, it's token-gated. Wouldn't want them to have a card worth playing after all.
Post-3.1, this is now a phenomenal card. It now costs 2 SP for 2 stacks, but more importantly, Thundercloud is not removed after a fight. This means that for the low cost of 2 SP every 25 rounds you get a huge amount of added damage with every attack. Play whenever it has a token.

Add 2 stacks of Lightning Mark to one enemy, draw 1.

Low impact, but at least it's cheap and cycles so you'll find yourself playing this a fair bit simply to find other (better) cards to play. This does at least have the benefit of not being range-limited, so PZ can contribute to fights elsewhere; it's best used on Fighters who have a big enough health pool to be worth whittling down while not having any additional resistances to mitigate the damage.



Attack an enemy, always hitting, and apply the Thunder Finger debuff (when another enemy is attacked, the debuffed enemy takes an equal amount of damage, once only).

2 SP for a single attack from a low AP support is pretty terrible, so you're going to need to get a lot of mileage out of the debuff to make this worth playing. As this only applies on the field, not in fights, you'll struggle to really get your SP's worth from playing this card at its full cost - 2 SP means duplicating one poke effect, then paying ~1 SP for a support's attack. Curiously, this is purely up-front damage, making it a burst-oriented card very much at odds with PZ's otherwise long-fight-oriented kit. Does have some value when paired with high damage cards like BaJie's Rocket Fist.

Interactions:
All multi-action heroes - Any allied heroes with multiple damage sources will get double benefit from Lightning Mark; meanwhile, enemy heroes which take multiple actions (slightly different to the above - doesn't include Felyn or those who build items with innate damage) will take additional stacks. AoE heroes will also proc damage from Lightning Mark - Gang is notable here because his AoE is omnipresent but something of an afterthought.

Wukong - as with all debuffs, Lightning Mark (and Thunder Finger, if you forget what you're doing and target him with it) will be reflected onto your entire team when thrown at Wukong.
v2.1 | Peiniang Zhu
No particular benefits as such, but does have two interesting Variants. Might be worthy of more consideration now depending on your playstyle.

Variant 1

Changed - Lightning Mark deals extra damage equal to Peiniang Zhu's level + 2.

Gained - Whenever you play one of Peiniang Zhu's cards apply a stack of Lightning Mark to a random enemy.

A curious Variant - Lightning Mark gets weaker, but you can stack it up before fights by playing Peiniang Zhu's cards. Said cards are generally decent but not incredible; whether this makes you play them or just acts as a consolation prize largely depends on your draft and whether there are other heroes that want that SP more. This Variant does encourage you to avoid fights, however, since your pre-applied marks will fall off as soon as that hero has fought. Probably much worse post v3.1 since you've got a much better way of going into fights with Lightning Mark and the main thing making PZ strong now is the ability to ignore her cards.

Variant 2

Changed - Lightning Mark deals extra damage equal to Peiniang Zhu's level + 2 2% of Peiniang Zhu's AP.

Gained - Peiniang Zhu applies a stack of Lightning Mark when they hit with an attack.

An even weirder Variant, this is a very rare example of a support that wants to go all-in on AP. Given supports don't get much gold this is a difficult Variant to run (and requires you to itemise to make use of it); if your version happens to be running the rule which gives supports bonus gold generation, however, this Variant becomes really very good (basically a better Crank). Would be pretty great if you could run Peiniang Zhu in mid (though her other Variants would be garbage there). Encourages you to skirmish through bot lane to try to pick up kill gold on your support (comically).
v3.1 | Peiniang Zhu
v3.1 Updates: Huge changes to the entry due to the PZ rework. For those not in-the-know - Thundercloud was changed from 3 SP, add 3 stacks of Lightning Mark on entry to your next fight; to 2 SP, add 2 stacks of Lightning Mark on entry to every fight for the rest of the game. Thanks to this change, PZ becomes obnoxiously strong for very little SP investment. Note that the main selling point now is how little you have to do to get huge value out of her - don't spam her cards, they're still kinda bad.

Item build: Support. There are a few notably very strong Mage-adjacent items for PZ (Terror Anthology is AMAZING on her, as is Psychic Glove) but otherwise build support items and maybe something defensive to keep the stacks coming. If Variant 2 comes in, take a heavy AP build and try to manipulate things so she picks up kill gold to pay for it.
Minor note: Peiniang Zhu's damage does count as an attack for the purposes of stacking items, specifically Iron Tire and Fearless Headband. Consider picking them up against her.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing much. Again, the point of the hero is to not give her anything.

Funnelling: Once more - the point is don't give her anything. Is a great user of bonus AP on Variant 2 though.

Rejected gags:
Zappy zappy zap, zap zap zappy, zappy zap zap, zap zap zappy zap, zap zap zappy zappy zap, zap zap, zap zap, zappy zap, zap zap, zappy zappy zap[www.scripts.com].
Peter
Using a giant robot to fight with makes perfect sense, but let's be honest - the energy shield is just showing off. Use an actual shield you poser. - Auth.

Name: Peter

Position: Top / Support

Role: Tank

Mastery choices:
Hyper Protection restores an additional 20% max health / Hyper Protection restores an additional 5% max health and increases its range by 1

Gain an additional 35 health per level and 1 Presence / Gain an additional 3 health per 25 gold

Itemisation: Tank

Synergies: Deep Space (taunt to guarantee protection initially), Crank (Hyper Shield shenanigans)

Counters: Targeted attacks (e.g. Nihil, Xiangxi Ke)

Countered by: Anti-tank (.e.g Mihawk)

Summary: Pure brick wall tank best played in a support role.

Analysis: Peter is a tank whose main distinguishing feature is his Taunt ability. This effect forces the first 3/5 attacks made by enemies in fights to target him, during which time he also gains a chunk of armour. This, coupled with his 20 additional base armour, makes him a fairly solid damage sponge, particularly in smaller/shorter engagements.

Once his Taunt stacks are used up, Peter is essentially just a vanilla tank with a little extra armour; as such, he's best sited in the support role where he can use Taunt to protect his ADC from ganks while a better scaling hero takes the solo lane position. He also has access to a fairly good, if expensive, initiation for creating pseudo-ganks by pulling in nearby junglers.

Ultimately, lacking as he does any real tools for scaling or utility and with only a handful of Taunt stacks per fight, Peter is generally not a very good pick. Heroes like Blocker can fill a support-tank role with a lot more utility; top lane has access to heroes like Bart and Frank who can perform the solo lane tank role better. Pick someone else.

Cards:
Peter restores 30/50% of his max health. 50% of excess healing is then dealt as damage to enemy heroes within 1 hex.

A surprisingly chunky hit out of a pure tank, potentially up to 25% of Peter's max health. Unfortunately, since Peter lacks any other form of damage (and his initiation is too expensive to pair with anything else without discounts), it's difficult to really get much real value out of this. There are however some shenanigans you can pull with it if you really want to (see below).



Peter restores 50% of his max health, with any excess healing becoming a shield. He then starts a fight involving all heroes within 2 hexes, with a 5 round duration.

An extremely expensive engage, but one which can allow for some good lopsided fights in bot lane if timed when your jungler is nearby. The 5 round duration means you're more likely to secure at least one kill, even with Peter doing next to no damage. Ultimately you'll struggle to play this consistently simply due to the cost, but you can usually squeeze a good fight or two out of it over the course of a game.

Peter restores 30% max health, then applies the Reactive Armour buff to an ally within 3 hexes. This buff blocks 90% of the damage from one attack within 10 rounds.

Incredibly expensive for blocking just a single attack. About the only real use for this card is to heal prior to a shield bomb. Otherwise, avoid like the plague.





Interactions:
Shield Bomb - So, you want to explode people with Peter? Fair enough, here's how you do it. Firstly, you run Peter in top lane; you then run heroes who can provide him either with bonus health or bonus gold (Dylan in mid for example). In the bot lane support role you play Crank. Then, once Peter has a very substantial health pool (and, ideally, your bot lane opponents have taken some damage), you heal Peter up either via Quick Recall or Reactive Armour, use Crank's Swap to place him next to the enemy bot lane, and play Hyper Protection - which, in theory, explodes them.

In practice this is really not a practical approach - you're having to funnel resources into an otherwise low impact tank, you need to find three separate pieces in order to do it, and 9 times out of 10 the damage isn't actually enough to kill them anyway because Hyper Protection's damage is pre-mitigation, meaning it actually winds up dealing approx. 17.5% of Peter's max health to a 35 armour target. It is pretty funny when you can make it happen, though, especially if you somehow kill the enemy jungler as well.
v2.1 | Peter
Once again, barely changes.

Variant 1

Changed - Peter gains armour equal to 12 20 x his level while Taunt is active.

Gained - Taunt expires at the end of the first round.

Barely makes any kind of difference; Taunt expires at the end of the first round, but it'll do so anyway in most reasonably large fights and several of the stacks are usually used to block low damage swings anyway. Pretty much an irrelevance unless you're expecting to get ganked a lot early.
v3.1 | Peter
v3.1 Updates: No changes. Peter remains as he was, a dumb brick wall with no real incentives to pick him. Has some limited value in a brick wall comp if Blocker is banned out.
Hold the phone! Peter appears to have been stealth-buffed at some point. It doesn't show up in any of the descriptions, but his Taunt now applies 5 armour to all allied heroes when it soaks a hit, allowing him to provide fight-long protection. This is legitimately enough of a buff to push him up an entire tier. You still don't want to run him in top, of course - that armour gain isn't scaling off anything - but it's pretty huge from a support.
(note - author is far too lazy to actually re-do the tier list just for one change, so you'll just have to remember it)

Further edit - disregard the above, turns out that change is tied to something. WHAT it's tied to is entirely unclear - something in TCS, a Variant, god only knows given the lack of documentation. Further testing required.

Item build: Pure Tank. You can grab him support items, but since his entire kit screams 'tank' you'll get relatively limited benefit compared to running an actual support to hold those items.

Reserve Tactics: Quick Recall for bombs. A cheap movement effect like Teleporting for Support or Skillful Roaming could let you use Shield Impact more effectively, but at that point you're just crowbarring Tactics cards in to let you use a hero you probably shouldn't be.

Funnelling: No, on either count.

Rejected gags:
Peter appears to have pictures of his family on his wall, which is quite sweet. Almost sweet enough to stop me wondering why he put an 'H' on his mech's genitals.
Tiger Boy
I'd love to come up with something witty here, but frankly this character design is so stupid there's really not a lot I can add that would be more comical than the hero himself.

Name: Tiger Boy

Position: Top / Mid / Support

Role: Support

Mastery choices:
Gain 3 AP and 22.5 max health per level / Gain 1.5 AP and 38.5 max health per level

Double Trouble grants an additional 10 AP per level / Whimsical also draws one card from the draw pile.

Tiger Boy can stun targets 2 turns after they were last stunned by him / Add an additional copy of Whimsical to the deck.

Itemisation: Support-tank

Synergies: Niels, Gang (multi-target stuns)

Counters: None

Countered by: Wukong (debuff reflection), Palulu (Shields)

Summary: Utility support providing stuns and card manipulation

Analysis: Tiger Boy is a utility support who exists to provide stuns in fights. That is essentially his only purpose, but it's a fairly useful one - after all, a stunned enemy is one who isn't attacking you back.

The downside is that he doesn't really do anything else, and unfortunately that puts him much further down the totem pole than a lot of other heroes. His main other benefit is his Whimsical card, which can allow for some nice recycle plays - but which is really quite awkward to get the maximum use out of, and can easily wind up doing absolutely nothing useful.

Much like Peiniang Zhu, Tiger Boy's big problem really lies in the fact that he has no real scaling on his abilities. Yes he provides stuns and such, but he doesn't really do much with extra gold (at least, nothing another hero wouldn't do more with); this leaves him in an awkward position of being classed as a mage and having access to multiple solo lanes, but having no reason to ever be picked outside the support role. It's for this reason, too, that I recommend building him more as a support-tank than a mage - there's not much point in giving him AP when he's not going to do much with it, so you may as well bulk him up so he can keep stunning enemies for longer.

Overall, Tiger Boy is an acceptable pick, but never a great one. Simply put, he'll do.

Cards:
Give an allied hero AP equal to 10x Tiger Boy's level, and also a copy of his stun power, until the end of the next fight.

A very variable card, it can work wonders on the right hero - and can be absolutely useless on the wrong one. For best results you'll want to put this either on someone who'll stick around for a long time in fights (and so maximise stun opportunities), or on someone who gets multiple attacks and can therefore stun a lot of enemies at once. Note that the target doesn't get the benefit of Tiger Boy's masteries, so you're only getting one stun off per fight this way.

Draw 3 from your discard pile and reduce their costs by 1 for this Deployment Phase. Can't draw any more cards this Deployment Phase.

A solid card, as anything that gives discounts tends to be. If you're able to manipulate your deck such that you can pick the cards that are in your discard pile - if, for instance, this is in your opening hand - it can work wonders. If, on the other hand, you're not able to do so, try to remember to play this after playing cards you happen to want to play again. Renamed to Whimsy in v3.1, which is probably a worse name overall.


Attack an enemy within 1 hex; if it hits, the target can't participate in fights this Deployment Phase.

WAY too expensive for what it is. Yes, it can set you up for an isolated fight in the right circumstances - but 2 SP for that effect, if it hits, and if you have relevant enemies inside the small 1 hex range, is far too much. You'll almost never want to play this. Renamed to Prank Strike in v3.1, presumably to indicate that its existence is a prank on the player.



Interactions:
Shields - Targets with shields are immune to being stunned. For obvious reasons, this can make shields a real problem for Tiger Boy. The immunity only applies if the shield holds, though, so your main issue is in larger pre-fight shields rather than the ones created in-fight; this is possibly the only argument for building damage on your Tiger Boy rather than tank.

Multi-hit allies - Double Trouble, if applied to a hero like Niels, Gang or Kamaitachi, can apply stuns to multiple targets per round and therefore give you a very favourable fight. They can only stun each target once per fight, of course, but that's still enough to give you a leg up.
v2.1 | Tiger Boy
Whee, more heroes with no major changes. Does have a weird-ass Variant though.

Variant 1

Changed - Tiger Boy's stun effect is no longer restricted to one proc per target and also causes the target to take 30% more damage for one round.

Gained - Tiger Boy's stun effect is only applied on odd numbered rounds.

This is... really, really weird. Having said that, assuming you're willing to play around it (and you are, if you're drafting him), this is actually a huge buff - pick your fights right and you get a nasty stun every round. Combine with Double Trouble for very low risk skirmishing. Pay attention to what rounds objective fights happen on, though, since if they're on even-numbered rounds you've got a vanilla support weighing you down.
[N.B. It's entirely possible this means odd numbered fight rounds rather than game rounds, but the game steadfastly refuses to give me this Variant for me to check it. And honestly, I'm not sure I care about Tiger Boy enough to worry about that fact. If it does, that just means a direct nerf if you have the re-stun mastery or for shorter fights.]

Variant 2

Changed - Tiger Boy's stun effect applies once to each enemy unit applies whenever he attacks, up to a number of attacks equal to the number of enemy units.

Slightly improves Tiger Boy's reliability at the expense of sweep potential - he won't waste so many rounds stunning nothing because he's bonking someone he already bonked, but on the other hand, in longer fights you don't have an inevitable stun waiting for carries to eventually get targeted. Overall a slight buff, especially for skirmishing, but not enough to move the needle.
v3.1 | Tiger Boy
v3.1 Updates: Minor tweaks, notably to Variant 1 which continues to have wholly unclear wording. Two of his cards were renamed as a result of (presumably) a change to the machine translation used for the game.

Item build: Support-Tank. Again, his effect is agnostic of stats, so grab the support items you want then grab tank items. Debatable whether you want to avoid Presence (to keep the stuns around) or prioritise it (to soak hits with a low value hero).

Reserve Tactics: Nothing.

Funnelling: Nope.

Rejected gags:
Locked in an eternal staring contest with his own hat, both on his character model and his portrait.

Standing on the world's hardest jigsaw puzzle.
Tivie
Despite what you might think, Tivie is neither incapable nor unwilling to attack people. It's just that her hair is so absurdly long that she trips over it whenever she tries.

Name: Tivie

Position: Support

Role: Support

Mastery choices:
Rain of Life heals all allied heroes when it reaches 3 tokens rather than 4 / Rain of Life heals for an extra 50% of Tivie's AP

Melody of Revive costs 1 less / Melody of Revive costs 1 more but revived monsters are worth 35% more gold

Itemisation: Support-mage

Synergies: Cubey (heals on field), Wolfgang (create a monster), AoE jungle clearers

Counters: Debuff-oriented heroes (Crank, Big Foot etc.)

Countered by: None

Summary: Support who does nothing but heal allies.

Analysis: Soraka Tivie is the game's obligatory healer. She scales quite poorly - gaining just 60% of the standard AP and heal from levels and gold - and her attacks in fights heal the lowest health ally instead of targeting enemies. On the bright side, she gets a 10/30/60/100 bonus (levels 1/6/11/16) to her heals, so she's just squishy instead of useless; her heals also dispel all debuffs, which can be situationally useful.

Tivie also has a useful passive ability which heals your heroes for 30% of their max health at the end of a fight whether she was involved in that fight or not. This is possibly the strongest part of her kit, as it lets your heroes skirmish frequently while remaining at high health so as to push the lane afterwards. This, along with the excellent Heaven Rainfall card, is the main reason you'd pick her over a more effective support.

Due to her poor scaling, Tivie isn't generally a good pick. While she can help to keep your heroes alive, as a general rule it's more effective simply to buff them up to be more effective like other supports; the best strategy in fights is usually not 'lose more slowly'. That said, she also has no counters and can provide a lot of extra income to junglers who have a lot of clearance mechanisms, so your mileage may vary.

Incidentally, Tivie (like Palulu) can't crit with her heals, and several item effects which would cause damage or debuffs won't function with her. Make sure you check her item build to focus on AP and health, since other stats aren't useful to her.

Cards:
Spawned in the deck at levels 6/11/16 and removed when played. Reduce the cost of all cards in your hand by 1 until the end of this Deployment Phase.

A fantastic card, which is why you only get to play it a few times during the game. Discounts are always valuable, and as a 1 cost card you can get value out of this with just a couple of card plays even if you don't want to spend your full SP allocation; obviously it's most efficient to play all your cards, though. Note that unlike the comparable Quick Decision Tactics card, this card doesn't vanish if you don't use it, so you can hold it for the right moment.

Respawn all of the dead monsters in jungle hexes your team controls. When these monsters are killed by your heroes they grant 75% additional gold.

Quite expensive (the cost reduction mastery is important), this functions as a delayed gold bonus to your team (obviously usually your jungler, though other heroes can grab camps via cards). Due to being a multiplier on monster farming this card's value can vary immensely depending on your heroes' farming efficiency, pathing, how many monsters are currently dead and how much jungle your team controls; you'll have to gauge whether this is worth playing on a case-by-case basis. On the bright side, the bonus gold only applies to your team, so counter-jungling won't screw you too much harder than it normally would.

Target an allied hero to heal them for 200% of Tivie's AP and remove debuffs. This card then gains a token (shared across both copies). Once you have 4/3 tokens, this card targets all allied heroes.

Generally not all that useful. Unlike a lot of heals this doesn't have any overheal functionality, so it's mostly used to patch up allies to keep them in lane - reducing damage your towers are taking, but not really much else. Can be situationally useful to remove problematic debuffs before fights or to throw an emergency heal if you're worried about a gank.


Interactions:
Cubey - Cubey spends health to play its cards, and the effectiveness of those cards is predicated on its current health. Rain of Life can help to top it off to ensure you get as much value as possible out of those cards (although frankly you're still better off drafting a search function instead).

Wolfgang - Wolfgang continually scales up in fights to become a beast; this is especially notable for his armour gain. As a result, healing Wolfgang mid-fight has a disproportionately large effect, since thanks to his stolen armour each hitpoint will go further.

Jungle clearance - While Melody of Revive is a little underwhelming in a vacuum, it can be quite effective in conjunction with heroes who can quickly AoE clear their own jungle. Depending on circumstances you can either use Melody of Revive and then the clear to give them a nice influx of gold, or alternatively if your camps are mostly intact you can quickly clear them and then revive them immediately. Most notable with Zealot, whose Code: Devour has a built-in gold multiplier already.
v2.1 | Tivie
Say it with me - nothing much changes.

Variant 1

Removed - At the end of fights, Tivie restores 30% max health to all surviving allies (whether she participates or not).

Gained - At the start of objective teamfights Tivie restores 30% max health to all allies (whether she participates or not).

Something of a sidegrade - you lose Tivie's map-wide skirmish support (which admittedly is mostly just useful for pushing down towers), but in exchange you have to pay less attention to setting up for objective teamfights. On the other hand, setting up for objective teamfights should be second nature once you've been playing the game for a while, so this probably winds up being a nerf in most cases.
v3.1 | Tivie
v3.1 Updates: Again, no changes. Vanilla healer with vanilla cards.

Item build: Support. Build AP if you run out of support items, as unlike gold/levels she still gets 100% AP scaling.

Reserve Tactics: Nothing. You could get spicy with Invade Jungle to maximise Melody of Revive's effect, but that's an awful lot of SP you're dumping for a tiny trickle of bonus gold/XP.

Funnelling: Definitely not. Some minor value to searching Heaven Rainfall when needed.

Rejected gags:
Not pictured: the giant magnet just off-screen keeping her hair horizontal.

No matter how long I stare, she only plays those two notes. Does she even know how to play the lyre? That's what that instrument is, by the way.
v3.1 | Anna
For such a sweet, innocent appearance, Anna sure does encourage a lot of fighting and killing. I guess it gets boring in the suburbs.

Name:Anna

Position: Support

Role: Support

Mastery choices: When entering your first Deployment Phase, spawn a Cosmos into your hand / When entering your first Deployment Phase, search Floral Language into your hand

Rosemary adds 12 additional AP / Floral Language costs 1 less

Itemisation: Support

Synergies: Skirmish comps

Counters: Skirmish comps, one-slap chaps, Raven (armour), Lan (first round attacks)

Countered by: None

Summary: Support with a light card footprint who provides support for, and protection from, skirmish comps.

Analysis:
Anna has a lot of disparate effects between her passives and cards, but they're all fairly light touch. Her most ubiquitous trait is Fragrance - whenever your team enters a fight they gain Fragrance, which increases their armour by 40 for the first round of the fight (even if she's dead or absent). While 40 armour isn't exactly gamebreaking, it's certainly enough to make a big difference in damage output during that first round, and can really cause problems for teams that want to fight you constantly.

On top of this, Anna also provides Trial Before Awarding (activates whether she's there or not, but does not activate if she's dead). This allows you to pick a specific enemy hero to debuff (though the debuff is just a marker with no negative effects). If that hero dies during the fight, their killer is awarded with Rosemary, a buff which lasts for the rest of the game and gives that hero a 30/42 AP boost on their first attack of each fight.

Between these two effects, Anna is obviously built for frequent fights - if you're skirmishing you'll get steadily increasing benefits from securing kills while also being relatively resilient to the counterpunch. Unfortunately Rosemary tends not to be all that impactful, as it's low impact (30/42 AP isn't all that much really unless you've got a big multiplier behind it, plus it's only for the one attack) and also really quite hard to manipulate onto the hero you want getting it. Consider Anna a Fragrance vector, with Rosemary being a small added benefit, rather than the inverse.

Finally, Anna's cards are quite unique in that she actually only has one card that starts in the deck. When you play that one card you generate three more cards, all of which single-use, in your deck. This keeps your deck nice and lean, especially if you're picking her to ward off skirmishes and therefore don't want to use her cards much (which are largely skirmish-centric).

Between her light touch and her low impact but ubiquitous and positive effects, Anna comes in as a nice flexible defensive support you can drop into most comps without too many concerns. Her only real weakness (such as it is) is being drafted against teamfight comps, as her effects all wear off quickly and have no real benefit in longer, larger engages.

Cards:
Spawn one copy each of Mandala Flower, Flame Orchid and Cosmos into your deck.

Quite expensive for not actually doing anything directly, by playing this card you're basically pre-paying SP for the high efficiency of the created cards. The cost reduction mastery helps to mitigate the delayed impact.





Target an enemy hero (global); start a standard 3/1 fight centred on their hex.

A vanilla initiation card but without range restrictions and with a steep cost reduction. Most of the SP you paid for Floral Language is going into the cost reduction for this card. Nothing particularly stand-out about it otherwise aside from working on any lane.





Target a friendly hero. If that hero has jungle creeps within 1 hex of them, they kill all of said creeps. If they don't, they gain the Flame Orchid effect, giving them 15 armour penetration on their first attack of their next fight.

The least useful of the three spawned cards, Flame Orchid is mostly useful for situational minor counterjungling; while this doesn't tend to matter all that much in the short term, the card is at least free (once created, that is). Try to avoid playing this with no creeps around, as the Flame Orchid effect is really quite unimpressive - like Rosemary it only works for one attack, but unlike Rosemary it only lasts for one fight. Can be situationally strong for a small number of heroes that hit very hard in the first round (e.g. Hakuna).

Target a friendly hero and move them one hex.

Very simple and somewhat low impact, but happily does at least give you a movement effect that doesn't break the bank. Works nicely paired with Mandala Flower to give you a properly set up skirmish for very low relative SP cost, allowing you to fit in utility or pre-fight poke.





Interactions:
Trial failed: Anna and Lubos are, per the small amount of lore we have, supposed to be linked (I think they're lovers or something? Honestly I forget). Unfortunately they don't actually work all that well together - Flame Orchid is often redundant given Lubos already has armour pen on his special attack, and importantly, Trial Before Awarding applies after Lubos attacks, making it very hard to actually get Rosemary onto him. Patch 3.1.14 was, I believe, supposed to have fixed this - but so far as I can tell, it only partially succeeded, if at all.

Sad birb: Raven's raison d'etre is to stack feathers to let him punch through armour. Fragrance provides ten feathers' worth of armour in the first round, leaving Raven unlikely to get his auto-crit and extremely vulnerable to being blown up before he can make his kit function.

Keep it tight: Anna's tiny deck footprint makes her the perfect support for a comp that wants to spam specific cards over and over. It's unfortunate that frequently the cards you want to spam are support cards (e.g. Beverly, Dylan), but nonetheless there are certain heroes who appreciate the light touch without really wanting to be tutored (Leon, Qube, Ada, Wukong are all examples).
v3.1 | Anna (cont.)
v3.1 Updates: Added.

Item build: Support. Note that Fragrance counts as Anna taking an action and applying a buff, so any effects which proc off buffs (e.g. Scallion Oil Noodles) work nicely.

Reserve Tactics: Anna is a great user of Focus since she's already keeping the deck light (though not for her own card(s), obviously).

Funnelling: No. She has no effects to make her worth stat-boosting, and tutoring her isn't really worthwhile.

Rejected gags:
There's something sinister about Anna, I swear. Maybe it's the artwork on Floral Language - 'oh no, I didn't mean to cause you to murder a man, how awful, tee hee'. Maybe it's just the inherent deception in wearing glasses with no lenses in them. Either way, I don't trust her and neither should you.

What kind of freak grows trees on their roof anyway?
Team Comp Approaches
As should hopefully have become apparent if you read through the earlier parts of this guide (or at least skimmed them - let's be honest, there's a lot to get through), there are a few approaches you'll generally want to take when drafting a comp for this game. Importantly these aren't fixed, but just general guidelines to how you'll plan for the early part of the draft - once you know what's banned out and a few picks have happened on either team you can adapt the rest of your strategy accordingly.

The approaches are:

Bot lane focus - Pick a dominant bot lane pair early and look to snowball them. This can either be done by picking a lane bully ADC and hammering the enemy with attacks, or by picking a strong scaling ADC and ganking repeatedly. Other lanes should provide frontline and gank support.

Examples:
Reinhardt / Kamaitachi / Wolfgang / Felyn / Blocker
Frank / Aurelio / Enidi / Gang / Paisai
Wukong / Gillis / Aurelio / Bajie / Acedia

Jungle focus - Similar to bot lane focus, but playing around a jungle-support pair. ADC should be a strong general purpose pick. This approach tends not to win as quickly since your dominant hero isn't pushing a lane, but is able to spread out and help every lane at various times.

Examples:
Kid / Zealot / Dylan / Elemi / Beverly
Qube / Kamaitachi / Bunu Shan / Digo / Beverly

Single hero - This approach basically says 'I want to play this hero' and then builds a comp around them. Exactly how you go about this varies depending on the hero you're working around, but often involves double supports.

Examples:
Cubey / Reinhardt / Aurelio / Digo / Blocker
Merisi / Kamaitachi / Dylan / Elemi / Beverly
Kid / Zealot / Lan / Gang / Lady Deadfire
Qube / Aurelio / Dylan / Bariel / Charon
Bart / Hakuna / Enidi / Niels / Palulu

Theme - This approach picks a specific aspect to work around such as skirmishing, debuffs or assassination. This usually requires very targeted bans.

Examples:
Big Foot / Hakuna / Crank / Bond / Peiniang Zhu (Death by debuff)
Qube / Zealot / Wolfgang / Ada / Paisai (Fight All Day)
Nihil / Mo / Xiangxi Ke / Bond / Lady Deadfire (Bye Bye Backline)
Kid / Mo / Gillis / Bajie / Acedia (Money Money Money)
v3.1 | Team Comp Approaches
A couple of new team comp approaches have cropped up as a result of v3.1's new hero pool. Note that as before, these are generalist approaches, not fixed comps - just themes around which to build a comp.

Alpha Strike

This comp looks to approach teamfights by delivering such a massive hammer-blow in the first round that everything after that is cleanup. You'll want to stack up the boat as much as possible, and optionally throw debuffs onto enemy squishies before big fights. Key unit is Chen Fengcheng. Note Reinhardt's armour shred happens after the boat hits.

Examples:

Chen Fengcheng / Hakuna / Enidi / Bond / Peiniang Zhu

Chen Fengcheng / Reinhardt / Lady Deadfire / Shougong Lei / Tiger Boy

Premeditated Murder

Here you look to combine targeted attacks with low-health-targeting assassins to pick and eliminate opponents one by one. Leon is basically required here, with Felicity a strong bonus.

Examples:

Justice / Leon / Xiangxi Ke / Bond / Felicity

Leon / Xiangxi Ke / Nihil / Foso / Crank
v3.1 | The Conqueror Series
New to v3.1 is the Conqueror Series game mode, a challenging roguelite mode which shifts gameplay dramatically. The major noteworthy changes:

- There is no training or athlete development
- Inherent Mastery trees and Mastery progression are disabled
- Training Points are awarded after each game (with a bonus at the end of each season), and spent on expanding hero pools, buying Skills (a replacement for Mastery progression), Match Traits and Athlete Cards
- Seasons last a variable number of games with updates periodically
- Successfully completing a season allows you to progress to the next difficulty, with gradually increasing penalties applied as a result of that difficulty

Importantly, note that TCS is not infinite - it will end after three seasons, assuming you don't lose before then. Each season you get one 'Insurance' which saves you if you lose (and, optionally, allows you to skip the last game of a season if unspent, since you'd be progressing either way).

Due to the new structure and the removal of a lot of mechanics you'll be so used to as to take for granted, TCS can be very challenging at higher difficulty levels. It certainly took me a while to un-learn the main game and get into the swing of TCS. But eventually...


Due to the roguelite nature of the mode it's impossible to give a straight up 'this is how you win' explanation; the bulk of this guide will help, but isn't necessarily fully relevant due to the absence of static Mastery trees. I have nonetheless endeavoured to provide a few hints and tips below to guide you to your TCS victory.

Good luck.
v3.1 | The Conqueror Series (cont.)

    Keep in mind that you can't guarantee any hero gets any specific Mastery points. This can really cause headaches for you early on if you're used to playing with a specific hero using their key Masteries. To give a basic example, a huge amount of Cubey's scaling comes from its Masteries giving it increased stat scaling per level... and now that's gone, at least until you find and buy it.

    Some heroes have more unique Mastery options in their trees than others. To compensate for this, the developers added a number of new Masteries for heroes that simply don't exist in the regular game mode. Additionally, where you've got a choice between two options, each option exists individually as a Skill - meaning you can have both. A good example of these changes can be found in Beverly - she's no longer stuck choosing between boosting her Renovation's AP or Health benefits and can instead boost both, and now has access to a unique Skill allowing her to play Maintenance on her Designated Target instead of a tower.
    (note - since there's no in-game list of the available skills I'm sadly unable to waste sixteen pages of this guide evaluating each one individually. I'm sure you're all very sad about that.)

    As well as the heroes' unique Masteries becoming skills, there's also a wide variety of more generic Skills on offer. These range from extremely unimpressive (great, gain a few AP when shielding allies on the field, I'm sure my ADC will make great use of that) to absolutely absurd. There is, for instance, a Skill which gives a hero flat 35% bonus crit; while this is tagged for Supports only, dear old Felicity is classed as a support. Thanks to the wide variety of Skills available you'll need to do your own analysis of which ones are good and which aren't (unless the developers add Skills to the archive at some point, in which case you can just wait for me to do it).

    While some Skills are admittedly pretty garbage, you should nonetheless focus on picking up something - anything - for the heroes you want to focus on as early as possible. Since there's no longer any flat health/AP gains from masteries, heroes instead gain health/AP per level from simply having any Skill equipped - and while they might look small, those bonuses build up. Purely anecdotally, it seems like getting the push in lane is heavily tied to this adjusted Mastery system as well since there's no longer any Athlete stats to modify it.

    For your early-run upgrades, focus on picking up enough skills to get 2-3 heroes for each role 2-3 Skills each. This should be enough to get you a good enough draft without going overboard burning all your TP. Alongside this, try to prioritise Tactics cards and Match Traits, as your starting selection is garbage and nothing respectively. Match Traits in particular are very cheap to purchase, and even a low impact one will do a hell of a lot more than nothing will.

    Bear in mind for your early games (your first season or so) that your deck will be full of the garbage Tactics cards the game starts you with. You'll need to replace them ASAP, but until then avoid any drafts that require you to frequently find and play specific cards. Yes, that means Felyn/Blocker is finally not an S-tier lane!

    While obviously you should still pick up power-picks when they're offered, try to avoid any emphasis on hero pool expansions for your first season or so. Skills are far more important initially - between the power of the Skills themselves and the bonus stats they're extremely impactful. You can pick up hero pool expansions later on - and happily, doing so in later seasons makes the chosen hero start with a few semi-random Skills. They may be garbage, but replacing them is cheap and buying them definitely isn't.

    When you do start expanding your hero pool, place an even higher priority on power picks than you already did. Anything which can be considered a very broad counter (e.g. Wukong, Hass, Bart) will soak a lot of bans, and that's a lot more important in this mode due to your more restricted hero pool options - doubly so in the higher difficulties when you start getting picks locked out. You should also pay attention to heroes the AI loves to ban (e.g. Felicity, Raven, Big Foot) because you can soak free bans on heroes you have no intention of ever playing.

    Speaking of the hero lock-out, once you're playing at high difficulty you'll need to be very conscious of it during every pick/ban. For clarity, this lock-out occurs whenever you pick a hero and causes you to be unable to play that hero until the lock-out clears - the AI can still pick them, but you can't. The lock-out clears at the mid-point and end of each season. This makes it essential that you don't burn all your best picks in the first draft of a lock-out, because by the third game of a six-game season you're going to be really struggling to put any kind of comp together. You'll also find yourself starved of bans since you'll need to be banning out heroes you'd otherwise early pick.

    Pay close attention to the Variants that show up, and in particular, the ones that shift heroes into roles that can carry heavily. In my pictured run above, for instance, Wolfgang shifted to Variant 2 early and I was able to abuse this to have him basically solo-carry several games. His mere existence allowed me to take a relatively weak draft, preserving my lock-out for other games.

    When it comes to your actual draft, you'll need to be extremely fluid. Early on you'll want to lean on a skirmish-heavy playstyle; your deck will be full of crap like Roam, so you'll want skirmish-reliant heroes to get any value out of them, while finding the cards to put more elaborate strategies together will be difficult. Later on you'll instead be running into lock-out issues and probably want to avoid drafting, say, Reinhardt and Blocker together since it'll leave you with no decent searchers for later games.

    Finally, if you're really struggling and just want that damned achievement, you can resort to save scumming. Simply close the game when the loss is clear (even when the loss message is up) and loading your save will put you back at the pick/ban of that game. Just ensure you alt-F4 before you get out of the match, because that's when the auto-save happens.

v2.1 | Yippochievements!
This is something I put together for my own personal amusement - a large set of achievements based on amusing game occurrences or dumb jokes. If you're only here for information, you can safely skip this section. If, on the other hand, you're trying to squeeze more life out of the game, maybe give some of these a try. Note that for some inexplicable reason I don't have the power of God over Steam, so all of these are obviously untracked and unofficial - you'll have to determine for yourself if you've earned them or not. Some of them are really freaking hard to do, so don't feel bad if you can't or won't do them - they're intentionally hard. I've also thrown explanations in a few places where you might not know how to even approach them.

P.S. Developers - if you're somehow reading this, feel free to steal these. You don't even have to give me credit, you can just use them. Credit would be kinda cool, though...

P.P.S. Yes, I'm aware that the name 'Yippochievements' is deeply, deeply cringe. All the same, I find it funny.
v2.1 | Hero Yippochievements (Part 1)
I'm Here To Save The... Oh.
Play Babe's Free-For-All when all invited enemy heroes are dead.

What Do You Get A Man Who Has Everything?
Play Babe's Gift Bundle when he already has the maximum stacks of Happy Happy.

House wins
Have Bart negate a Quinn super crit and kill her with the reflected damage.

Recycling Saves The Environment!
Use Big Foot's Rapid Cooling to play the same card for four Deployment Phases in a row. Second copies of the same card don't count.

Short Term Thinking
Kill an enemy Frank with Cubey's Differentiation-a, dealing at least 1000 damage.

Worth It
Cause Frank to die by playing his cards.

He Took Everything From Me
Kill Dylan using Hass' Shadow Blade when Dylan has at least one stack of Blue Pill active.

Just Iced
After Justice enters a fight with four Sword of Justice stacks, have the fight end with at least three enemy heroes killed, without Justice executing any of them.

Revolving Door
Kill the same friendly hero using Kid's Amnesty twice in one match.

Where is everybody?
Have Miki be the only participating hero alive when an objective fight begins.

Suspicious Mind
Have 5 stacks of Suspect on every enemy hero simultaneously. [N.B. basically impossible without Qube's Variant active.]

Modern Day Prometheus[en.wikipedia.org]
Have Shougong Lei kill an enemy Hass after Hass has stolen at least three Flame stacks from Aurelio during the fight.

Banana Hamma
Kill an enemy from full health in a single hit using Bond.

Unlucky Charm
Have Gillis attack and kill an enemy hero with an Accumulation-empowered attack while that hero is debuffed with Charm.

I. Smack. With. TREE!
Kill at least two enemy units simultaneously with Hakuna's special attack.

Best Boy
Have Kaka kill five enemies without ever joining a fight or playing a field attack card other than Blood Scent.

My Arm Is Tired
Have Kamaitachi attack six times in one round.

Duelist Kingdom[yugioh.fandom.com]
Have Lubos start a 1v1 fight with each individual enemy hero using Duel. Lubos must win every fight.

Expert Anglerfish[en.wikipedia.org]
Have Manta be involved in at least three fights initiated by enemies over the course of a game, killing at least one enemy in each fight.

Shades Of Steve Irwin[en.wikipedia.org]
Have Manta initiate a 1v1 with Palulu and kill her with one attack.

Wallet Whack
Have Mo kill a full health enemy ranged unit with his special reaction attack. Mo must have earned at least 1000 gold in bounties over the course of the game.

Whack-a-Mo
End a game with Mo on the enemy team. Mo must have 0 kills and at least 5 deaths.

Tastes Like Purple[leagueoflegends.fandom.com]
Have Nihil swap from Crimson form to Azure form and back at least three times during the same fight.

Roadkill
Have Reinhardt kill enemy units with his special starting attack at least five times during one game.

Set 'em Up, Knock 'em Down
Have Xiangxi Ke get a pentakill by attacking five times in a row [via her extra attacks on unit death].

I Love A Fair Fight
Have a fight against three enemy heroes using only Zealot. All three enemy heroes must be killed, each killed by a different Zealot clone.

Truly Endless Vengeance
Have an enemy hero equipped with a GA item [i.e. item which prevents death when triggered] trigger their GA and then die in the same round. Crank's Endless Vengeance damage must both trigger the GA and kill them. [Requires an enemy hero with extra attacks.]

Encore
Get a pentakill on the field with Enidi. Enemy heroes may only die to damage from The Finale and Return Performance.

Ready, Aim, Fire
In one fight, have a gun-using hero (e.g. Ada, Felyn etc.) kill three enemy heroes with three back-to-back attacks. Each slain hero must have had at least five stacks of Dark Flame when killed.

Who Is Even Paying For This?
Have Lan complete all three Step C upgrades by killing the same enemy hero. That hero must have 0 kills when the upgrades are completed, Lan must land the killing blow each time, and she must receive bounty gold each time.

Do Not Pass Go[en.wikipedia.org]
Use knockback effects to move an enemy hero at least 3 hexes, then have Merisi kill them with Fight in the Prison.

I Want To Cry
Play Mihawk's Drain the Soul on an enemy hero when it has at least 90 tokens on it. The attack must miss.

Group Bondage
Have all four ally heroes affected by Niels' Bound at the same time.

Shadow Realm[yugioh.fandom.com]
Have at least 50 tokens on Wolfgang's Chain of War, then play it targeting an enemy Quinn.
v2.1 | Hero Yippochievements (Part 2)
Working From Home
Have Ada kill all five enemy heroes with her special attack over the course of a game. In each case Ada must not be participating in the fight.

Look Ma, No Hands
Have BaJie kill two enemy heroes using Rocket Punch in the same Deployment Phase.

Chaaaaaaaaaaarge!
Have Bariel travel four hexes in one direction using Charge, then kill an enemy using Cannon Strike.

Always Angry[en.wikipedia.org]
Have Bunu Shan kill three enemy heroes with one attack in a fight.

Very Precise Airstrike
Play Deep Space's Volley with at least five Missile cards in hand. All of the Missiles must hit the same enemy.

Heavy Is The Head[en.wikipedia.org]
Kill at least two enemy heroes and destroy the enemy base with one Eternal Throne.

Very Rapid Shooting
Play Elemi's Rapid Shooting three times in one Deployment Phase. All of the attacks must hit.

She Just Can't Hide It[en.wikipedia.org]
Get a pentakill with Felyn on the field.

Big Badda Boom[en.wikipedia.org]
In one Deployment Phase, kill at least three enemy heroes and at least one allied hero with Gang.

But He's Supposed To Be Immune To Traps[yugioh.fandom.com]
Have Omaha's Wild Heart die to Bart's reflected damage.

Very Very Frightening[en.wikipedia.org]
Kill all five enemy heroes by playing Shougong Lei's Thunderstorm while you have Niels' Revelation in hand.

Air Superiority
Play Shougong Lei's Thunderstorm as your first card in a Deployment Phase. All enemy heroes must be hit by Thunderstorm, and all enemy heroes must be dead by the end of that Deployment Phase.

Quinn Who?
Kill Qin Hu with Quinn's overkill damage.

Not Such A Good Idea
Play Acedia's Eureka and expend five Sleepiness stacks, then play a card with a base cost of 0.

Practice Makes Perfect
Get Beverly to 20 stacks of Mech Mastery.

Indecision
Play Interference Field on each allied hero at least twice over the course of a game.

Nope
Prevent three different allied heroes from dying in one fight with Charon's Walking Dead effect. The fight must end with all allied heroes alive.

Poor Resource Management
Have Dylan have 0 gold at any point after round 5.

Hail Hydra[hailhydra.fandom.com]
Play Fatty White's Hail three times in one Deployment Phase, targeting a different lane each time.

Placebo
Play Paisai's Elixir twice in one Deployment Phase, both times targeting the same allied hero, and then kill an enemy hero using the targeted hero. The targeted hero must have been at full health both times Elixir was played.

You Don't Look So Good
Win a fight with no enemy heroes left alive when your only participating hero is Palulu. [Requires a delayed damage card like Crank's Endless Vengeance, and most likely an indefinite duration initiation like Foso's Libra.]

Give Them The Finger
Play Thunder Finger twice in one Deployment Phase. The second Thunder Finger must trigger the first one's debuff, and must kill both targets.

The Best Defence
Get a pentakill with one play of Peter's Hyper Protection.

Double, Triple... How Much Trouble?
Apply Tiger Boy's Double Trouble to each allied hero in the same Deployment Phase.

Drought
Win a game with Tivie without playing Heaven Rainfall or Rain of Life.

Flyby
Attack every enemy hero using Raven's feathers in one Deployment Phase.

No Score Draw
Play Foso's Libra to initiate a fight between Palulu and Tivie.

Baddieguard
Kill an enemy Qin Hu. Qin Hu's Warden must have joined the fight, and must survive.

Jackpot!
Kill all five enemy heroes with a single attack from Quinn.

What Doesn't Kill Me
Use an enemy Wukong to apply three stacks of Matata to all five allied heroes in one fight.
v2.1 | Team Yippochievements
What's Cooler Than Being Cool?[en.wikipedia.org]
Win a game with a team containing Big Foot, Hakuna, Matata and Fatty White

Seven Nation Cubey[en.wikipedia.org]
Have your Cubey fight alone against at least 7 enemy units (including summons) and survive, killing at least one enemy unit during the fight.

Could Take A While
Have a fight in which Frank and Cubey (one friendly, one enemy) are the only living participants, each with at least 10,000 health remaining.

True Justice
Achieve a pentakill with Justice against an enemy team which includes Kid.

I Wanna Be Like You
Have Hass steal both The Final Moment and Oo-oo-ee-ee buffs from Bond during a fight.

No Worries
Win a game with both Hakuna and Matata on your team with both having zero deaths and at least one kill each.

1v1 Me Bro
Initiate a fight which would involve only one allied hero but instead involves five using a combination of Knight's Oath, Slayer's Intuition, Bound and Overwatch.

Touchdown!
Move a hero (friendly or enemy) from one base hex to the other.

One Of These Things Is Not Like The Others
Win a game using a team comprising Raven, Shougong Lei, Peiniang Zhu, Miki and Mihawk.

Snooze Button
Win a game with both Acedia and Bunu Shan on your team. You must win before Bunu Shan Awakens, and you may not play Acedia's Alarm Clock.

Stay Out Of This
Initiate a fight which should involve three enemy heroes but instead only involves one using a combination of Acedia's Good Night and Tiger Boy's Mischief.

Investment Strategy
Generate at least 6,000 gold for one hero during a single Deployment Phase without killing any heroes or towers.

The Hardest Achievement
Lose a game in which you have Felyn and Blocker as your ADC-support pair.

The Slow Death
Have an enemy hero die while afflicted by Crank's Endless Vengeance, five stacks of Big Foot's Frozen Stiff and at least one stack of Peiniang Zhu's Lightning Mark.

Shielded Shield
Initiate a fight involving a friendly Bart or Peter and at least three enemy heroes. No enemy heroes may die, and Bart/Peter must have full health when the fight ends.

Could I Play Please
End a fight lasting at least three rounds in which no enemy hero took an action. [Requires lots of stun effects, e.g. Tiger Boy]

We Are Legion
Initiate a fight in which Zealot is the only participating allied hero. Have him joined by Qin Hu's Warden, Omaha's Wild Heart and Kaka's Stone Hound.

Mo Mo Mo Mo Monkey
Have Bond travel at least four hexes and then initiate a fight against an enemy Mo. Bond must die during the fight.

Win Lane Win Game
Win a game in which each of your heroes fought and killed the player in the same position on the enemy team. Each kill must be in a 1v1.
Conclusion
Hopefully this guide has been helpful to you. I've tried to cover everything someone might want to know (within reasonable limits - I'm not going over every trait damnit), but if there's something I've missed off please feel free to ask in the comments. I will almost certainly ignore you, but someone else will probably reply.

If you liked the guide, or found it helpful, please let me know and/or do whatever it is people do to guides to mark it as being good (rate it? Favourite it? I don't even know). Actually, do those even if you didn't like it, it's all the same to you and I'll appreciate it. As you might expect given the sheer size of this guide, it took me quite a while and I'd like to know that my effort wasn't a huge waste of my life.

I may or may not update the guide in future if more content is released - I'd like to say I will, but realistically my motivation stretches as far as my interest in the game, so if new content doesn't get me playing it again I probably won't update. Still, hope springs eternal, right?
v2.1 | Conclusion
And with that the guide is updated with new content. This took quite a while (although not as long as the first version) - primarily because I'm lazy, and also insist on writing far too much. Hopefully it will continue to help though.

As always, thank you for reading.
v3.1 | Conclusion
Woof, that was a lot of updates, but while there's still a couple of outliers to finish up, things are complete enough for me to remove the WIP tag. Every hero entry updated, a lot of new stuff added to the various sections.

As always, a huge thank you to those of you who have provided comments (particularly the supportive ones <3). Further thanks to everyone who has read this guide without immediately spitting their Mountain Dew over the keyboard and posting an insulting comment, and simply to the people playing the game - I greatly enjoy it, and the support the devs get is why they're still pushing out content and fixes.

Here's hoping for at least one more content patch before Trump starts nuclear war to distract everyone from his laundry list of criminal activities and the world goes up in flames.

Still to do:
Add in My Team (I've been writing too much and apparently they can't win games without me clicking buttons, the useless buggers)
Test interactions between Fernan and Omaha/Raven (AI refuses to pick them)
62 Comments
< 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 >
AzureAkua
13 Jun @ 2:49am 
Really appreciate all the effort :D the quips and flavor text r funny, perhaps the length could be cut down though by moving all the info on previous versions of the game to a separate document that you link somewhere
FxFighter
29 May @ 6:34pm 
It's hard to call cubey strong when it either requires blocker/someone to draw their cards or needs to be round 70-80 before it kicks into gear, often gets free farmed before then. I guess if you have some huge card rotation or can pick back its specific card you might be able to get his stuff out quicker... but there are much easier options.
Kazanski
21 May @ 7:08am 
Absolute legend. Enjoyed the read.
Kosm
5 Mar @ 7:11am 
Just wanted to say ty for the guide and for updating it.
TwentyTwan
13 Dec, 2025 @ 11:27pm 
Love your guide, it's very indepth! Few things I disagree with but that is always happening. One major thing I feel I disagree with is your ranking of the match trait Immitation Master as of 3.1. With access to reserve tactic cards it feels like a very good option for reusing 1 time cards like Rethink, Quick Recall and the likes. Honestly even copying an early tactical adjustment for the extra +1 and draw 1 can help. If you tend to play big turns(like I personally do) it basically means that you can use it once every 2 turns.

I do believe you want it on a support who also has another option for match traits. But in slower metas I think Immitaiton master can do solid work and is deserving of a bump up.
Yippo the Clown
 [author]
21 Nov, 2025 @ 11:32pm 
Surprise update - after a suitable break I came back to the game to play around with the Conqueror Series. I've added a section with tips based on my experience. I have also added in the few Fernan interactions I was missing, plus updated Peter's entry due to him receiving a sneaky buff at some point which is entirely undocumented in-game (if only I read Chinese...).
Zhein
26 Oct, 2025 @ 2:37am 
Still a great guide even after more than a year of updates !

A few notes !
- For Niels you've forgotten Felyn for synergies. It's an insane field kill combo. Niels+Blocker+Felyn just clean pretty much anything.
- Blocker needs a tier of its own. Maybe it's my playstyle but he enable so much stuff.
